
The Stolguard Incident - Lyn Alden

Copyright © 2026 by Lyn Alden

All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in whole or part without written permission of the publisher.

ISBN 979-8-9886663-5-6 (hardcover)

ISBN 979-8-9886663-6-3 (paperback)

ISBN 979-8-9886663-7-0 (ebook)

ISBN 979-8-9886663-8-7 (audiobook)

Published by Timestamp Press


This is a work of fiction. Characters and events are products of the author’s imagination. Any resemblance to actual people or events is purely coincidental.

Reader discretion is advised. This book contains violence and other mature content. Views expressed by the characters do not necessarily represent those of the author.




Contents



Prologue

Part I: A Number as a Name

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3: Ten Years Earlier

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6: Eight Years Earlier

Chapter 7: Eight Years Earlier, Continued

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10: Six Years Earlier

Chapter 11: Six Years Earlier, Continued

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14: Four Years Earlier

Chapter 15

Part II: The Tapestry

Chapter 16: Three Years Earlier

Chapter 17

Chapter 18: Two Years Earlier

Chapter 19: Two Years Earlier, Continued

Chapter 20

Chapter 21

Chapter 22: Five Weeks Earlier

Chapter 23

Chapter 24

Chapter 25: Four Weeks Earlier

Chapter 26: Four Weeks Earlier, Continued

Chapter 27: Four Weeks Earlier, Continued

Chapter 28: Four Weeks Earlier, Continued

Part III: Lost and Found

Chapter 29

Chapter 30

Chapter 31

Chapter 32

Chapter 33

Chapter 34

Chapter 35

Chapter 36

Chapter 37

Chapter 38

Chapter 39

Chapter 40

Part IV: Hades

Chapter 41

Chapter 42

Chapter 43

Chapter 44

Chapter 45

Chapter 46

Chapter 47

Chapter 48

Epilogue: Six Months Later

Acknowledgements

About the Author







Prologue



Jess sprinted unshod through the dark forest, the dog keeping pace at her side.

She didn’t know where she was headed, just away from that monster. From all that gore, all that death. That humorless smile.

Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me, she repeated in her head. She wanted to say it aloud, but her burning lungs refused.

After a few minutes, she stopped to catch her breath, bracing one hand against a tree as she gasped for air. The dog ran several yards ahead, collar jingling, then came to a hesitant stop and turned back toward her. Normally he would’ve barked—he never did know when to shut the hell up—but he’d been oddly silent this whole time.

A twig broke somewhere behind them.

Jess froze, holding her breath. Even the dog’s collar went still.

Was it real, or only in her imagination? After several seconds, she forced herself to look. She half expected to see those glowing eyes, but there was nothing. Just moonlit pines.

From somewhere in the distance, sirens wailed. Should she head to the highway and wave them down? Or would they just arrest her?

No, it was best to avoid the police. She knew her instructions. She’d been trained. There were more teams around. All she had to do was find one of them and she’d be safe.

She took a deep breath to calm herself and looked down at the dog. “Come on, Jack. Let’s get out of here.”







Part I





A Number as a Name







Chapter 1



The blood had been ripped out of their bodies. Asim considered himself a hard man to rattle, but he’d never seen anything like this before.

Walking through the crime scene, he couldn’t help but cover his nose with his forearm. He had declined a mask from one of the local police officers—the corpses were far too fresh to smell yet—but now he wished he’d taken it. Just the sight of this mess made him want something over his face.

As he surveyed the wall and ground, both stained red with dried blood that was now being reanimated by the drizzling rain, his mind ran through scenarios for how this could’ve happened. So far, he’d come up with little that made sense.

It was a highway rest stop deep in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. At around midnight, the manager had reported gunshots and an explosion to local police, who responded within minutes. The unusual gore and military context of what they found led them to escalate the issue, resulting in Asim coming out here with a unit early in the morning. At his rank he wasn’t generally meant to go into the field, but he had to see this one for himself.

The incident had occurred at the back of the rest stop, behind a convenience store. Three of the corpses—two Caucasian males in their forties and one Hispanic female in her twenties—were still intact, but had suffered obscene blood loss. They’d been operatives of some sort, judging by their expensive, slim nanocomposite armored vests, their combat boots, and the military-grade rifles strewn about. The blood appeared to have burst out at high velocity through the skin on their backs, piercing their body armor like a water jet cutter and splattering the area. There were no entry wounds.

A fourth corpse, a giant of a man in thick full-body armor, had been thrown with such force against the concrete wall of the store that the back of his skull had shattered, and the wall cracked straight through to the other side. Not even a high-speed car crash would’ve penetrated that deep. More curiously, the bloody crater from the impact was about nine feet off the ground, with a red streak extending down to where his broken body now lay.

Asim crouched and examined the giant man’s face, careful not to let his trench coat dip into the muck. Caucasian, about seven feet tall, likely in his late twenties or early thirties, with a bullet hole piercing the center of his forehead. It was a 9mm round from the look of it, but forensics would confirm and probably already had. The dead face stared vacantly ahead, its eyes an unnaturally vivid shade of pale green with vertical slits for pupils. He’d seen eye mods from aesthetic clinics before, but nothing this extensive.

He looked back at the other faces. The female corpse had the same weird vertical-pupil green eyes as the giant man, but the other two dead men’s eyes looked normal.

The fifth and final corpse had come to a different fate. With a broken neck and blunt-force trauma to the temple, the young man looked more like a typical murder victim, if there was such a thing. At least his blood was still where it belonged. He had a handsome face, with dark skin and high cheekbones. Average height, no armor, early twenties at most, and based on his thin build and casual attire, he likely wasn’t any sort of operative. He wore sneakers rather than combat boots, and he rested on the ground almost peacefully, his eyes the only ones closed. Deep marks on his wrists indicated that he’d been bound not long ago.

A hundred yards away from the corpses, a van lay upside down on the edge of the parking lot near the tree line, the pavement broken beneath it. The vehicle was crushed, with debris scattered dozens of feet in all directions. Its battery had burst into flames, and a forensics unit was still combing through the charred remains.

“Son of a bitch,” Asim whispered, running a hand through his rain-dampened hair.

After taking another moment to scan the area, he sighed and set out to the front of the store. Dozens of local and state police officers and firefighters swarmed the place, along with their various hovering service drones, while a mix of police and news helicopters thrummed above in the overcast sky. Ava Zhou, one of his most reliable special agents, stood interviewing the store’s night-duty manager.

Asim approached the police captain, a balding man in his fifties he’d already checked in with earlier. “Any sightings yet?”

“Not yet, Colonel,” the captain said. “But this manhunt’s our top priority. We have our entire precinct and the state troopers involved. Three drone fleets are out there scanning, and we’ve got some promising signs from the K-9 unit, so we’ll see where that leads. Anything you can tell us yet?”

Asim shook his head. “Afraid not. But we’ll keep in touch. I appreciate your team’s professionalism.” The investigation had already been passed to military jurisdiction, but the state and local police were the ones performing the manhunt for whoever had done this.

The captain swallowed, paused, then spoke again. “I thought they’d send the FBI when we called this in. Not the, uh, Army.”

Asim nodded. “We may pull in the Bureau, but for now the DoD prefers to clean up what may be one of its own messes.” Despite his civilian clothing, Asim was the deputy commander of Army Counterintelligence, or ACI for short, but many people weren’t familiar with what that even meant. His team’s job was to detect and neutralize military-related national security threats, including ones from insiders.

Catching Ava’s eye, Asim signaled her over and stepped away from the captain. Half a minute later, after wrapping up her conversation, she strode over with her tablet in hand. Wearing a well-tailored dark suit jacket over a pastel violet blouse, and with her hair pulled back into a prim bun, Ava stood out from most people here. Unsurprisingly, she had a smile on her face.

No matter the details of a case over the past few years, whether basic or gory—and this was by far the goriest—Ava seemed to take it in stride. A brilliant young civilian investigator in Asim’s counterintelligence group, she was methodical and efficient.

“You up for an early lunch, sir?” she asked. “I could go for spaghetti.”

She also cracked too many jokes, in his view. What a weird combination. He still hadn’t quite figured her out.

“Alright, give me the status,” Asim said. Not acknowledging her quips never seemed to stop them from coming, though. He led her to where they could see the corpses, but still comfortably away from the gore. Just damp asphalt around them, with the rain unlocking its oily smell.

“Yes, sir. Skipping the obvious,” she began. “The firearms are unregistered, but they’re all types issued by the Department of Defense. No usable fingerprints thanks to the van fire, though we’ve found two sets of footprints in the blood. One was a set of boot prints, matching the type that’s on all the operatives’ bodies but none of their precise sizes. The second was a set of bare footprints, potentially from a teenager or a woman based on their size. That makes two participants unaccounted for.”

“Likely the perp and a missing captive,” Asim said. “Sounds like the perp’s an operative, too. Gone rogue, maybe. Any clue how the hell that much blood sprayed out?”

She shook her head. “Not yet, sir. We’ll have to wait for the coroner to examine them. It seems to have ripped straight out of their veins. But whatever insanity caused this, it didn’t happen to the biggest one.” She pointed. “Forensics thinks the impact against the wall killed him. His armored back hit first, then his head snapped back. The 9mm gunshot wound to his forehead didn’t bleed much, suggesting it occurred postmortem. Must’ve been a popular guy.”

“Any other bullets found?” Asim asked.

“Two 9mm bullets and three casings were found on the ground nearby, and one more bullet and casing pair were recovered in the van wreckage, but the only gunshot wound found so far was in the big guy’s forehead. All the operatives had 9mm pistols holstered on their persons except for him—his holster’s empty. None of them were missing any rounds, sir. Neither were the rifles. Forensics found three 9mm pistols in the van, damaged to varying degrees, and one of them was missing a single round. So at least three of the four shots seem to be from the missing perp’s pistol, which is presumably still with them, and one likely came from that pistol in the van.”

“What’s our system say about the victims’ identities?”

“We ran their prints and DNA against both standard and restricted databases, and none of the green-eyed ones came up with a match in any system, sir. But the two males with normal eyes are both ex-military. Clean records. I’m sending you their files right . . . now.” She tapped her tablet.

Asim’s phone buzzed in his pocket. “What about him?” he asked, gesturing to the fifth corpse, the youngest one, as he pulled out his phone to glance at their files. “Do we have an ID for him?”

“Not yet, but judging by the restraint marks, he was a captive,” Ava said. “We found two pairs of ripped-apart plasticuffs on the ground that were likely used on him and the missing person without shoes. But here’s the thing, sir—his eyes are that strange type too.”

She went over to his corpse, deftly slipping a glove on along the way, and lifted his left eyelid. The iris was a striking green, and with a vertical pupil.

“Huh.” Asim scratched his head. He hadn’t expected that at all. It was embarrassing that he hadn’t even bothered to check the young man’s eyes, since unlike the rest, they were closed. “So, three of the five bodies have these weird eyes, rather than just two. I thought this civilian one would be our best lead, but he’s a fucking ghost too, somehow?”

“Seems that way, sir,” Ava said. “No additional bodies were found in the burnt van. But initial observations show that the van, well, fell from a great height onto its roof and skidded a few dozen feet, breaking apart in the process.”

“Fell? From where?” He looked up and gestured with his hand toward the open sky for emphasis. Chilly raindrops tapped his palm.

“It was launched somehow, sir. Based on the direction of the pavement damage and debris pattern, its trajectory likely originated from roughly where the bodies are. There’s a witness who saw the van flying in an arc-like motion.”

Asim raised his eyebrows.

Ava shrugged with exaggerated flair, then continued. “The action happened shortly before midnight. A charging station attendant saw the van arrive and charge its battery, but didn’t keep track of it after that. Our team is reviewing the store’s camera footage, which does capture the van leaving the station and heading to the area behind the store. The license plate is registered to a shell company that we’re looking into. Apparently, the store’s rear camera has been offline for over six months. Nobody bothered to have it fixed, so there’s nothing capturing the actual event. The—”

He sighed. “Of course.”

Ava eyed him, looked back down at her tablet, and spoke again. “The night manager of the convenience store heard gunshots and a slam that rattled the whole building, so he called the police. The building’s wall, concrete about a foot thick, has cracks straight to the other side from the big guy’s impact, and the wall’s interior steel reinforcement bars are bent. While the manager was on the phone with police, an explosion sounded in the distance, which was probably the van.” She gestured with her chin. “By the time he got the nerve to come out and look, there was nobody around. Just this bloody mess and the flaming van wreckage.”

“So, the witness didn’t see any of it either?”

“That wasn’t the only witness, sir,” Ava said, smiling and holding up her finger. “At the time of the incident, two eighteen-wheelers were parked over there. Both drivers awoke to the gunshots.” She pointed over to a long and empty parking lot, meant for trucks. Beyond that, the dense pine forest began.

“One piece of good news, at least.”

She nodded. “It was dark and far away for both of them, and one had a bad angle relative to the convenience store, but the other saw some of the event, sir. The police got his full report before we arrived, and they released him after questioning. He saw the van parked behind the convenience store, lights on, with its back-facing doors open. Bodies were already on the ground. He saw two figures moving around the vehicle in the dark. Then he ducked down in his cabin to hide. He claims someone near the van threw it, sir.”

“Like, he saw someone pick it up and . . .” Asim began. The sentence felt too stupid to finish.

She grinned. “The police pushed him about that, sir. Like I said, it was dark and far away. He clarified that someone stood next to it, and then it went flying.”

“And let me guess. He can’t identify the people he saw?”

Ava shook her head and shrugged. Of course not.

“Find out which security firm these two traceable ex-military ones worked for,” he said. “Then we’ll contact them and push for details and their client list.”

He turned and regarded the peaceful fifth corpse. Civilian-looking, younger, and yet still with those inhuman eyes. Most of the scene investigators were focused on the biggest corpse wearing the strange thick armor, but this fifth body was the one that gave Asim a chill. He lingered on the image for a moment, watching drops of rain tap the young man’s lifeless face.

“I want the coroner to examine their eyes as soon as possible. In fact, send one of ours in. Johnson, preferably. Highest priority. Get that process in motion now. We might be able to trace the clinic where they had their eyes modded and get IDs from there. With a potential live captive at risk, we need to move fast.”

Ava nodded. Her tablet was automatically transcribing the conversation, even though she’d likely remember it all anyway. “I can also have forensics check for tire tracks to see if they can isolate recent ones, and which way they may have gone. That wrecked van might not be the only one, sir.”

“Yes, do that,” he said. “But there will be tire tracks all over the place. I’ll authorize as much data analysis as you or Flanagan need for this. Check all the highway cameras, in both directions and all exits, within a hundred miles, going forty-eight hours back. Have the bots look for black vans of similar models to that one. I’ll sign for it.”

Ava’s eyes went wide, and she nodded again. That was a bigger dataset than they’d checked in a long time. She began setting up the analysis request on her tablet.

Truth be told, even though they made his agents’ jobs easier, Asim hated the ubiquity of the cameras these days. They were everywhere in towns and cities, and along the major transportation corridors. Police officers and feds could get access to a few camera recordings from pretty much anywhere if they needed them, but collecting more than that required a court order. After widespread protests four years ago in response to a major hack, the connections between public camera feeds and AI datacenters had been restricted to low bandwidth limits unless authorized on a case-by-case basis.

What the public didn’t know was that the feds had a backdoor. Because of course they did. A secret court dealing with national security matters had ruled to allow those with rare clearance levels, like Asim, to unilaterally bypass bandwidth caps and directly tap the surveillance systems into a military datacenter. He merely had to sign for it with his unique digital key.

Asim figured an override of nearly any scale was worth it to find out what the hell had happened here. More people could be in danger already, including the unaccounted-for captive who’d left the bare footprints.

The main thing that unnerved him—other than the whole ripped-out blood thing and the thrown van, as if they weren’t enough—was the seeming black-ops nature of the victims in a place like this. At his level he had access to most of the special off-record databases, and yet they had nothing on the green-eyed ones. Something was amiss.

“It’s ready for you to sign, sir.” Ava held up her tablet. Asim pulled out his phone, set up the visual code with his signing key, and let her scan it with her tablet camera. “Okay, it’s sent to headquarters. I’ll let you know when the findings come back, sir.”

“How many times have I said that you don’t have to call me ‘sir’?” He was a military officer, but Ava served his division as one of his civilian agents and thus had no such obligation. For some reason, hearing it so frequently in the field was more grating than back in the office.

“Of course. Still feels right, though.” She smiled. She’d previously told him that it wasn’t about his military rank and was instead about his professional seniority, but he kept assuming it’d drop off as she worked with him longer. It never did. Too casual in some ways, too formal in others, and thus somehow capable of annoying him at both ends.

“Fine,” he said. “Don’t forget to have the local coroners sign NDAs for their findings, and as I mentioned, we’ll probably have to send Johnson to assist anyway, so make sure to get on top of that right away. The coroner’s findings go to us first, and then we’ll give a redacted version to the local police.”

She nodded. “I already pinged Dr. Johnson. Anything else, sir?”

“Yes. Tell the police that we ran the green-eyed ones through our restricted system and identified them, but that we can’t share the names. Make it sound routine. It’s better they think we know the answers and view it as normal than for them to wonder and spread rumors.”

She stared down at her tablet for a moment with a frown, then nodded again. “Of course, sir.”



Hours later, the police manhunt hadn’t yet located the perp or the missing captive. Highway cameras, however, had caught the same black van several times in the hours prior to the night’s events. It drove east to west, slipped out of sight into some Pine Barrens back roads, then doubled back four hours later, heading east before pulling into the rest stop. The system also spotted two other identical vans with different license plate numbers.

In response, Asim had authorized a second highway camera sweep focused on the southeast region, where the van had originally appeared. Every hour mattered for the potential captive.

The coroner wouldn’t have a preliminary report on the corpses’ eyes until morning. So, after a long day, Asim and his field team boarded their helicopter and flew back to Maryland near Washington, DC—and from there, home.

At ACI headquarters, Asim’s analysts traced the license plate of the burnt van and the employer of the two deceased ex-military operatives with normal eyes. Hidden through layers of shell companies, it all led to a firm called Eidolon Solutions. Asim knew most of the major military security contractors, but not this one. And just to add to his growing headache, because why not, they refused to provide any information on their clients, citing top-secret clearances. ACI’s legal team would have to drag them through a military court to force it out of them, which would waste days.

By the time he walked through his front door, Asim was exhausted. Not physically, and perhaps not even mentally—maybe spiritually? Was that the right word for someone who wasn’t religious? Stripping off his boots, coat, sidearm, and plain black sweater, he felt his appreciation of humanity drop yet another notch lower, and that made him tired. He hadn’t seen gore like this since his service abroad.

After taking a shower, where he listened to vintage rock to blot out his thoughts, Asim pulled out a whiskey glass and lingered on it. It’d been three dry days in a row this time; maybe he owed himself some after a day like today? But then, with a sigh, he put it away and headed straight for his VR room instead. He was trying to be a better man. Usually failing, but trying.

Most of his apartment was unremarkable, except for his VR setup. That was expensive, top-shelf gear. With a mix of technologies, including wireless signals to the brain from the headset as well as a silk-thin haptic feedback suit that covered most of his skin, it let him experience all five senses of a virtual environment. For those on the true cutting edge, surgically implanted electrodes offered even deeper immersion, but Asim wasn’t willing to go that far yet.

He’d heard repeatedly that society’s obsession with VR had become unhealthy in recent years as the tech increasingly allowed people to feel the virtual environment rather than just see and hear it. The experience seemed genuine to the point of blurring the line with reality if you weren’t actively trying to spot the differences.

It was “society’s modern addiction” as Ava liked to say, and to her point, a growing number of people barely left the virtual world other than to deal with occasional necessities. She was one of the few people he knew who didn’t like to use VR and only rarely did so.

Yet Asim figured that if he replaced one addiction with another, then that wasn’t so bad. Or at least, a man should spread his addictions around a bit, right? For damage control? Even just thinking about it now, he pictured that whiskey glass and felt tempted again. But he pushed away the thought, suited himself up, strapped himself into his motion chair, and went in.

Seconds later, reclining under an umbrella, he opened his eyes to a beautiful beach. The breeze caressed his skin and hair, the sun warmed his face, the scent of saltwater filled his nose, and the sound of gentle waves sang to him. It wasn’t 100 percent accurate to real life, but it was close enough, and it made for a nice contrast to the overcast sky and chilly drizzle that’d lasted all day.

He reached up and rubbed his face, running his hands over his cheeks and short beard, then down his neck. Some of the headset’s brain signals were directly soothing his anxiety and promoting a mild sense of well-being, which was a nice touch. Those signals indirectly magnified the physical sensations and made them subjectively feel more pleasant, which helped conceal the minor imperfections of the experience.

After a while, Asim stood up and looked around. There were a few genuine people and families sprinkled in the distance enjoying themselves, enough to make the environment feel social and populated without being crowded. This was a virtual beach, one of countless public places in the edge realms for people to enjoy—Beautiful Beach, Turquoise Water, Low Population Density, Room 7.

He looked over at the water, which was his favorite part, and the reason he always picked this specific spot. It was a clear blue, almost unnaturally so, like the southern coasts of the Mediterranean, with scattered rays from the virtual sun lending it a crystalline aspect. He waded into it, feeling its cool touch over his skin, and swam out maybe thirty yards. Then he . . . did nothing. He let himself float on his back, eyes closed, and just be.

Then he got a fucking text notification, jarring him out of his relaxation. He had set notifications to “essentials only,” so it was likely Ava or one of his bosses. Almost certainly not his ex-wife or daughter, though they were on that list too in case they’d ever call.

He opened his eyes, sighed, and stared at the flawless blue sky for a moment.

“Show me,” he said aloud. The sky transformed into his phone background, along with a message from Ava. He hesitated, thinking maybe this could wait until tomorrow; maybe he could pretend to already be asleep by now. But he thought better of it, and reached out with his hand to swipe the message open.

There was a second attack, sir, it read. There’s video this time.







Chapter 2



Asim had only managed two hours of sleep last night, sandwiched between bouts of remote work in his apartment. That gave him license to be an ass today.

“Colonel Rahal, can you—” some new person started.

“No, not yet,” Asim said, walking to his office within ACI headquarters at Fort Meade, Maryland. If something became important enough, Ava would filter it up to him.

Filtering had been a challenge ever since he shifted from international fieldwork to domestic supervisory work. Too little, and everyone could tell you everything, leaving you mired in tactics instead of strategy. Too much, and you wouldn’t have your finger on the pulse of things properly, putting you out of touch.

Ava turned out to be the missing piece he’d needed. Just the right amount of filtering. Thanks to her, he ran a two-tier system for the people who reported to him. Ava kept her finger on the pulse. That was her job. The pulse listener. The details woman. She had the youthful energy for that type of shit and even helped filter some things from people more senior than her, since everyone knew that was what Asim wanted.

Although she was technically only a junior special agent, Asim had given her an extra assignment to organize and report intel on ACI’s active cases to him on a recurring basis. It gave her more access than she’d otherwise have. In exchange, he got more headspace for strategy, and fewer distractions.

After he passed through the maze of window-lined halls that looked out at yet more gray clouds, he sat at his desk and pulled up the video of the second incident on his phone. By now it must’ve been the tenth time he’d watched it. He should have been managing the division’s broader workload instead of fixating on a single case, but he couldn’t help himself with this one.

The footage was from Brooklyn, late the previous night, twenty-two hours after the rest stop incident. It was a rough part of town, where cameras were torn down or spray-painted faster than the city could replace them, so the one that caught the incident was far away. The team had to zoom in on the footage, which made the resolution poor.

On the curb stood a tall prostitute with long, voluminous hair and high heels. What looked like her pimp and two other men skulked about behind her in an alley entrance. A figure wearing a hooded sweatshirt wandered down the sidewalk, with boots that were a plausible match to those of the operatives from the rest stop. Asim’s team had estimated the figure’s height to be somewhere between five-foot-seven and five-foot-nine; the poor video quality limited the precision.

The prostitute gestured to the hooded figure, who ignored her and kept walking. Then the setup revealed itself—this was an angler scheme. Some crews would get a prostitute, either real or fake, to lure a mark into an alley to pay the “pimp” for her services, then mug them. That was what the men in the alley seemed prepared to do. But when the hooded figure failed to stop, the men instead came out and surrounded them, with two of the three brandishing weapons: a blade and a pistol.

The figure paused, eerily still, then calmly stepped into the alley, disappearing off screen with them. The prostitute stayed on the curb, keeping watch.

Less than a minute later, she glanced toward the alley, froze, and slowly raised her hands, trembling. Several more seconds passed. The hooded figure emerged, pointing a pistol at her and carrying a bag. After a brief dialogue, the prostitute nodded and walked down the sidewalk with the figure following behind, lowering the pistol to their side, muzzle toward the ground, glancing back to survey the area.

Asim leaned forward and squinted at the screen, as though it would help. The hooded figure’s face wasn’t visible, but the eyes shone more than they should have, like a cat’s in the night. The camera’s low-light mode didn’t capture color, so it only rendered two bright pixels amid the bad resolution of a shadowed face. Asim was willing to bet any amount of money they were green.

That alone was strange enough, but what police had found in the alley was stranger still. None of the men had been shot. All three had been strangled to death, with enough force to crush their throats and fracture several vertebrae—and with no other injuries. “Dead within seconds” was the phrase that stood out on the paramedics’ initial report.

The hooded figure was almost certainly the perp from the rest stop, and now with this prostitute taken at gunpoint, there were two potential captives taken less than a day apart. Asim’s nagging concern was for the fate of the first one, since the perp had been alone at the start of this encounter.

He sighed. The first captive was likely already dead, then. That was how these things usually went. The odds weren’t good for this second one either.

After shutting off the video, he sat for several minutes, running through scenarios in his mind.

“We have Dr. Johnson’s initial report on the victims’ eyes,” Ava said from his open office doorway, startling him. When had she shown up? Had he dozed off? “I just sent it to you, sir. Dr. Johnson’s still in Jersey, but I have him on speaker.”

Asim gestured for her to come in.

She nodded and approached his desk, tablet in hand. “He said he’ll need deeper tissue sampling and may have to send out data to other labs, but we’ve got initial findings.”

Asim rubbed his face. “Johnson, you there? Give me the conclusion.”

“I’m here, Colonel,” Johnson said through Ava’s tablet. “Look, there’s no known clinic that can do anything like this. It isn’t a simple color mod or basic enhancement. It’s an entire eye redesign based on traits from animals.”

“Which animals?” Asim glanced up at Ava, who smirked. She’d probably gotten as little sleep as he had, but nobody would tell from looking at her.

“They’re a blend of human, owl, and cat eyes,” Johnson said. “They have what’s called a tapetum lucidum, a mirrored layer to boost low-light vision. Nocturnal creatures typically have them; it’s why their eyes reflect at night and look like they glow in the dark.”

“What about the vertical pupils?” Asim asked. This felt like middle school biology all over again. “Like a cat’s?”

“Right. The vertical slit is all about controlling light, with a wider range of contraction and dilation. Their eyes absorb more light than ours and need a way to curtail it in the daytime to avoid light blindness. The pupil will become thin during the day and open back up at night. The female’s eyes also have some weird microstructures I don’t recognize. But overall? They’ve probably got about 20/5 nocturnal vision, meaning they can see things four times farther off than we can at any given level of clarity, and in near total darkness.”

“So, enhanced operatives, basically,” Asim said, looking at Ava.

She nodded. “Night killers.”

“The disturbing part is the lack of micro-scars or other signs of modification,” Johnson said. “When surgeons make people’s eyes reflective in clinics for aesthetics, they just put harmless reflective pigments into the iris, at the front of the eye. But these tapetum lucidum layers are deep in the eye, behind the retina. And the other enhancements, like the vertical pupils, are foundational to the eye structure itself. This suggests they were born like this.”

Asim, who’d been reflexively running a hand through his hair, paused and brought his arm down. “But that doesn’t make sense. That giant corpse with those eyes at the rest stop must’ve been in his late twenties or older. You’re saying this gene tech existed back when he was born?”

“Seems that way, at least for whoever did this,” Johnson said. “There are mods that can let someone see mildly better at night or with up to 20/10 vision in the day, but nothing this sophisticated. There were some other things as well. The largest corpse has extremely high bone density. Never saw anything like it. And the youngest corpse has a neural implant in the back of his head. An X-ray showed that it’s more extensive than any I’ve seen. Initial DNA analysis from all three of the green-eyed ones revealed a ton of unknown genetic patterns mixed in with what is otherwise human. It’ll take a while to figure out what most of it does.”

“Anything else?” Asim asked.

“Yeah, the three green-eyed ones all have chips surgically implanted deep in the backs of their necks. We’ve only removed one so far for analysis, but assuming that all three are the same, they’re GPS tracking chips.” Johnson’s voice dropped a bit lower. “A high-end model, though not typically used on people.”

Asim thought for a bit. It had to be deep research. The Department of Defense—his own employer, ironically—had the budget to invest billions of dark dollars a year for several years to develop this type of shit in secret. It usually went nowhere and would be written off, but occasionally it led to something big. He looked at Ava but spoke to Johnson, “Did anyone figure out how all that blood burst out the backs of the bodies, or how a van was thrown the length of a football field?”

Ava shook her head.

“I don’t have a clue,” Johnson said over the line. “Not yet, anyway.”

That was okay. Asim’s upcoming jog might address some of that. Sometimes he had to check the pulse personally.



This was the kind of meeting you wouldn’t bring a phone to, unless it was in a faraday bag. Even switched off, many models could still be tracked. It was also the kind of meeting that you wouldn’t hold in anyone’s home or office, in case they’d been bugged.

Indeed, it was one of those old-school, accidental park-bench type of meetups with no electronic devices on your person or theirs—if you trusted them, that was. And you’d arrive at least half an hour apart.

So, as it happened, Asim found himself jogging in Gravelly Point Park in Arlington, Virginia, about an hour’s drive south of Fort Meade. And oh look, his old war buddy Roy O’Callaghan turned out to be jogging there today, too. What a coincidence.

Back during the Red Sea War and the operations that led up to it, Asim had worked military intelligence on foreign adversaries, going deep into hostile territory as an Arabic-English bilingual spy. His ethnicity helped him blend in, and he’d partnered with both Army and Navy strike teams to provide intel on enemy installations and leaders. Roy had been a member of SEAL Team Six, one of the elite units that handled the most complex, difficult, off-the-record, and sometimes internationally illegal missions, especially in the Red Sea theater at the time. Asim’s team marked targets to destroy, while Roy’s team would bring the destruction. Along the way, Roy had also saved Asim’s life, and they’d stayed in touch ever since.

“Isn’t it time to give up on regaining your six-pack?” Asim asked. “Maybe just embrace your flabby arc.”

“Only tryin’ to stay healthy,” Roy said. “Don’t have as much time to exercise as you do. Some of us have real jobs.”

Asim smiled, and both men slowed to a walk. The sky was overcast, and the riverside trails were only lightly trafficked. Every few minutes, a commercial jet roared almost too low overhead from the nearby DC airport—a novelty that kids loved. Including his own daughter Yasmin when she was that age.

“How’ve you been?” Asim asked.

“Pretty good. I’m workin’ on a lotta things. You?”

“Ah, well,” Asim said. He’d avoided that question ever since the divorce. And he didn’t meditate and shit like Roy did these days. “Now that I’m dealing with a crazy case, not great.”

“Oh?” Roy asked.

“Literally the worst I’ve seen.”

“Worse than Miles?”

“Maybe. Shaping up to be. It’s bad enough that I convinced ACI’s commander to let me oversee the case personally. We’ve opened a joint task force with both the FBI and CID on this, so now I get to coordinate that circus.”

“Well, you’ve got me interested.”

“Good, because I’ve got a question for you,” Asim said.

“Oh?”

“Back at the Red Sea, you mentioned some super black-ops soldiers with weird green eyes that glowed at night. You weren’t joking, were you?”

Roy eyed him. “No,” he said after a moment. “But we had the strictest orders never to talk about ’em. Shouldn’t have even mentioned it back then. Eight years later, and I still can’t talk about it.”

“And yet, here we are,” Asim said. “Off the record. Did they have vertical pupils? You didn’t mention that part.”

“I’m serious. This goes to the top,” Roy said.

“I can give you something in return.”

“I’m outta this line of work. What could you give me?”

“Lives. Human lives. One of those green-eyed operatives is off their leash. Gone rogue or something. I need to know what you know to save real, human lives from them, here at home.”

“Hmm.”

They walked in silence for a while. Asim didn’t push. Both of them carried regrets from the war. Both questioned the purpose of the whole thing to start with. And both, in their own ways, felt they had debts to pay. To whom, it wasn’t clear, even after one too many nights at the bar trying to figure it out together. Asim had shifted to counterintelligence for precisely that reason, to prevent military violence rather than contribute to it. As for Roy, he’d gone into private security work for VIPs.

“It’s becoming serial,” Asim added. “I think it’ll get worse. But for now, there might be one or two live captives that I haven’t given up on.”

Roy stared out over the Potomac and scratched his head with his synth arm. He’d never bothered to get a skin coating; he left it looking robotic on purpose. “What do you need to know?”

“Who were those people? And did they have vertical pupils?”

“Super-soldiers,” Roy said. “And yes, they did. Better eyesight. Better strength. Better reflexes. Better healing. Bred to kill. As if you were to design a spec-ops soldier from the ground up.”

“Could any of them throw a van a hundred yards?” Asim asked, regretting how dumb it sounded as soon as the words came out.

Roy eyed him again. “Not throw, no. And not something that big. But some of ’em had other abilities.”

Asim glanced out over the water, took a deep breath, then looked back at Roy. The man clearly had more to say.

“Like . . . telekinesis,” Roy said. “Movin’ objects with your mind. A green-eyed woman had that ability instead of enhanced strength. Not vans a hundred yards, though.”

Asim looked down to the ground and then back up at his old friend. “Please tell me you’re fucking with me.”

“Wish I was. But I saw it myself.”

“How many of those operatives did you know?”

“Four men and one woman,” Roy said. “Don’t know the total, but those were assigned to our group at the Red Sea. All with the same eyes. The four men dwarfed us in strength and speed, and the only advantage we had was experience.” He sighed. “But I think in a twisted way, they were considered less risky to send on the most dangerous missions than us. No families back home. No news leaks if they died. They could go deep into towns and kill with more precision and subtlety than a missile or drone, to avoid headlines about collateral damage.”

“And the woman?”

“She was the youngest of the five I knew. Eighteen, maybe nineteen. Unlike the others, she wasn’t a real soldier. More like an assassin. The others were in their twenties. All of ’em would be eight years older now, if any are still alive.”

“Did she have a name?” Asim asked.

“They were numbered, though some of them used nicknames. More of ’em joined over the years. Men for strength, women for telekinesis. At least a couple dozen overall. They still work with the most elite spec-ops teams today.”

“What can you tell me about her? The woman you knew?”

“She went by Fallon,” he said. “She demanded to be called that, instead of her number. And if one of ’em is off their leash, it sounds like her.”







Chapter 3





Ten Years Earlier


We still have not identified where or how consciousness arises, despite our best efforts. We have identified and harnessed more lucrative outcomes, nonetheless.

–TS log 10726, excerpt

fallon took a deep breath to calm her nerves. Today was likely the day she would graduate.

Dr. Stallard strode onto the artificial grass in front of the girls, stern as ever behind his short gray beard. “Now it’s time for the Class C reclassification test,” he said. “We’ll see who moves up to the next tier, and whether any of you might graduate to fieldwork.” His gray eyes glanced toward Fallon as he said that last part.

Didn’t they? Yes, they did. He knows I’m ready, Fallon told herself.

Several members of Class B had entered fieldwork over the past few years, but Fallon would be the first from Class C. And at only sixteen years old, she’d be the youngest to reach that level, even compared to the earliest of Class B, which was full of brutes anyway.

Well, mostly. She glanced at Jax. He gave her a reassuring nod—and a wink.

No distractions, she thought. Eyes on Dr. Stallard.

She’d nearly reached tier three at the prior semiannual test but had narrowly failed the precision requirement, and she refused to let that happen again. Nobody expected anyone to graduate this young, but Fallon didn’t strive toward adequacy—she strove toward greatness. If you’re bred for just one thing, you might as well be the best at it.

Twelve other girls stood in line with Fallon at the end of the facility’s enclosed sports and testing field, but none were as skilled as her. Dozens of people watched, including several of the Class B men who’d been tested in the morning session, tons of lab dorks, that silly woman who pretended to be everyone’s mother, and some suit-wearers and generals from the outside world who only came during these semiannual tests. And the ever-present men with guns, of course.

Eyes on Dr. Stallard. Not them, she reminded herself. On Father.

“For those of you who will be seeing this for the first time, you’re in for something special,” Dr. Stallard told the audience. “Our young women of Class C have starkly different abilities than the young men of Class B you saw earlier. C3, you’re first. Please come up here.”

Maria, or “C3,” stepped forward from Fallon’s left side. The oldest living subject of Class C at seventeen, Maria had wavy brown hair that twirled down past her shoulders, olive skin, and the same special green eyes as the rest of the subjects. Her stiff posture made it clear she was nervous, at least to those who knew her well. And it was right for her to be nervous—Maria wasn’t ready for tier three.

“Just like last time,” Dr. Stallard said. “Please pick up the tungsten ball, hold it two yards off the ground, and then shift it toward your left by one yard.”

Maria looked at the dense, three-hundred-pound tungsten ball sitting on the zero-yard line and reached out with her right hand in a grasping motion. Although she couldn’t feel it yet, Fallon knew the air temperature would have dropped slightly around Maria.

As Maria moved her grasped hand upward, then slightly left, the tungsten ball levitated off the ground, paused briefly, then moved left and paused again. Kinetic energy in the air molecules, which people felt as heat, was transferred to the ball. Temperature into motion. One of the new outsiders in suits gasped, and a few of them murmured to each other. That one bald general, Price, remained expressionless. He watched every test. Despite being an outsider, he felt almost familiar by this point.

Dr. Stallard used this as the basic test for the first tier of telekinetics—just make a single object levitate under your rough control. The only known people in the world who could do it were all standing on this field.

“Now, pick up the three tennis balls,” Dr. Stallard said. “Move them up and down while you move the tungsten ball from left to right.”

Maria took a deep breath and, with a grasping motion from her left hand, made all three tennis balls rise into the air as well. The tungsten ball began moving left to right as the three tennis balls moved up and down in unison.

It was of course impossible for anyone in the class to separately control four objects in four different directions simultaneously; they only had two mental arms or “foci” of independent control built into their brain structures. But by grasping the tungsten ball as one mental group and all three tennis balls as a second mental group, they could be controlled as two independent groups. Each member of Class C also had two mental legs or “bracers” that they could plant on the ground or another solid foundation. They could transfer momentum from their foci through their bracers to that foundation rather than through their own bodies. And so, rather than Maria being pushed around when moving the tungsten ball, she transferred the momentum to the earth with her corresponding bracer. This simultaneous combination of balls was the test for tier two, which Maria had reached years ago. It likely wasn’t too challenging for her anymore, and yet only about half of the girls could do it.

The next part is where she’ll fail again, Fallon thought. Like last time, and the time before.

“Very good, C3,” Dr. Stallard said. “Now, keep moving the tennis balls up and down, and throw the tungsten ball as far as you can down the field.” Subjects needed to clear fifty yards to pass the tier-three power requirement. Fallon had been the sole member of her class to hit that distance, at sixty-one yards to be exact. Maria wouldn’t reach it; she could barely do forty.

Maria stared down the field. The air around her chilled further, cool enough now for Fallon to feel it where she stood. Maria shouted as she thrust out her right hand. The tungsten ball flew down the field and landed on the fifty-three-yard line. She breathed heavily, and a rare hint of a smile formed on her lips.

Fallon’s pulse quickened. Could Maria actually make tier three? No. No way. There’s still the hardest part.

“Excellent, C3,” Dr. Stallard said, a rare flicker of excitement in his voice. “That is a new distance for you.” He gestured to one of the lab dorks, who brought over . . . a bottle of champagne? And a champagne glass?

But there’s still the precision test!

Dr. Stallard grabbed the bottle from the lab dork, twisted off the foil, and popped the cork. Then he reached out, took the narrow glass, and poured in some of the golden liquid. “Now, C3, take this glass from my hand, bring it to yourself, and sip from it without spilling a drop.”

Fallon exhaled in relief. There still was the precision test, of course. The third tier required moving the same number of independent object groups as the second tier, but with more power and precision. Fallon had prioritized her recent practice on the precision aspect, which she’d failed last time, and she was confident it would separate her from Maria and the two other half-decent ones in her class, Jolce and Zarina. Unlike the test with the balls, Dr. Stallard mixed up the precision test each time so that no one could practice beforehand for a specific scenario. Last time, the scenario was to levitate a device that kept moving and shifting its center of mass through a tight maze without touching the walls.

This time, they only had to drink from a glass?

As Fallon watched along with everyone else, Maria gripped with the fingers of her right hand. Using the focus she had previously used to throw the tungsten ball, she gained control of the champagne glass. With a small but visible degree of wobbliness, she nudged the glass out of Dr. Stallard’s fingers and brought it toward herself, yard by yard, while still moving the three tennis balls up and down in unison with her left focus, her left hand rocking up and down at the same tempo. The testing field went even quieter.

Much to Fallon’s annoyance, Maria got the glass all the way to her mouth without a spill. But as she reached forward and began to tilt the glass toward her lips, she used slightly too much force, and a few drops of champagne dribbled down her chin as she sipped. Eyes wide, she looked up at Dr. Stallard.

“You’ve come a long way, C3,” he said, sounding rehearsed. “Your progress is of a caliber that all here should emulate. But you spilled some, so you remain on the high end of tier two. I’m confident you’ll pass next time. Please return to the line.”

Fallon stifled a smile. She herself had ranked at the top of tier two for a few years now, and despite her over-preparedness, she knew deep down that there was a small chance she’d fail to reach tier three today and stay stuck in development for another six months. Now, with Maria having failed, even if Fallon were to somehow mess up too, at least there’d be nobody from her class above her.

The cold region of air dissipated into the field, and everyone clapped. Fallon tapped her hands together several times to play along with the silly ritual, and she met Maria’s eyes as the girl rejoined them in line.

One of the Class B men, Santiago, hauled the tungsten ball back to the starting line. Although it weighed three hundred pounds, he carried it almost like a basketball.

“Step forward, C5,” Dr. Stallard said as the clapping waned. “You’re next.”

“Thank you, Dr. Stallard,” Fallon said with a proper soldier’s volume. She strode over to the starting spot. One day, he would use her chosen name rather than her lab number. Or she’d be powerful enough to make him.

Forget that, she reminded herself. Focus on the test.

Dr. Stallard cleared his throat. “Please pick up the . . .”

Fallon tucked a stray chunk of her chin-length black hair back behind her ear and started before he could finish his sentence. Mapping the details of the surrounding air into her awareness to a degree that lesser minds couldn’t fathom, she drew its energy toward the tungsten ball. Squeezing her right fist, she mentally gripped the ball with her right focus and raised it into the air, sliding it left to right. Simultaneously, she planted her right bracer into the ground to transfer the momentum of the heavy lift to the earth instead of to her own body. With her second focus, she took control of the tennis balls and moved them up and down, her left hand rocking up and down similarly. She didn’t need to plant her second bracer for that little weight.

“Yes, Dr. Stallard,” she said. Tier two passed, obviously. She’d been able to do this since she was ten years old.

“Very good,” Dr. Stallard said. “Now throw the tungsten ball as far as . . .”

Fallon had already been amping up during her father’s needless talk. The air chilled around her, prickling her skin, and she threw the tungsten ball forward with everything she had, reaching into new depths of herself. She’d have a headache all day after this, but it would be worth it for a test that only came twice a year. The ball blazed down the field, faster and farther than Maria could ever hope to throw it, and landed with a heavy thud near the end.

“It’s eighty-seven yards,” a lab dork said, excitement clear in his voice. Dr. Stallard turned to look.

He’s impressed, Fallon thought. He knew going into this that I’m the only one who’s ready. And I’ve surprised even him. Her head throbbed, but the thrill dulled some of the pain.

“Remarkable,” Dr. Stallard said in an annoyingly mild tone. “Jacob, we haven’t recorded anything of that distance even during practice, have we?”

The lab dork shook his head. “It’s a new record. The prior was sixty-one yards, also set by C5.”

Rather than looking happy, Dr. Stallard locked his smile-less expression onto Fallon. He spoke to the crowd, but with his eyes remaining fixed only on her, meant for her. “We now have the precision test for our second subject.”

He gestured to the lab dork, who came over again with the champagne and the glass. Dr. Stallard poured again, and as it neared the right level, Fallon took a deep breath, ready to move it.

Dr. Stallard, however, kept pouring. He let the bubbles subside, then poured in more, let them subside again, then filled the glass all the way up to the rim. “Bring it to your lips and sip, with no drops lost,” he said, voice like ice.

Fallon froze. It would be impossible not to spill the liquid, being within a millimeter of the rim. Even for her. She’d assumed he wanted her in the field, and that she was going to be the first Class C agent. Had she overstepped? What was he thinking? Why would he sabotage her like this?

Would . . . would she fail the precision test again?

No. Not again. She blocked out everyone else except Dr. Stallard and started to take the glass from his fingers. No, not even Dr. Stallard now. Eyes only on this hellish rim. Not a millimeter’s worth of a drop over. There’s a surface tension; you probably need to mess up by two millimeters to spill and fail the test. The field doesn’t exist. There is no Dr. Stallard. There is no Jax. There is no Maria. There is no—Focus. Ignore even that recursive thought.

Do. Not. Spill.

Most people couldn’t see clearly from this distance, but Fallon’s eyes were made for this. She zoomed in on the rim, seeing every glint and bubble, then gently lifted the glass from Dr. Stallard’s hand. The golden liquid’s surface rippled, but none of it dribbled over the millimeter edge.

As far as Fallon was concerned, she was that millimeter. It was the only millimeter to ever exist. She moved the glass toward herself with her right focus without thinking about those “why” questions as she normally would, instead keeping her mind on every microscopic tilt of the liquid relative to the glass rim. Yard after yard, the glass moved toward her, with not a drop spilled. She shivered from the air’s lingering chill on her skin and ignored it. Nothing but the narrow distance between the liquid and the glass mattered.

The champagne reached her lips, and then—Keep attention on the rim gap. She paused, making sure not to repeat Maria’s mistake. Fallon then carefully leaned forward and took a sip out of the glass, hands-free. It was more bitter than she’d expected; she hadn’t tasted champagne before. Partially drained, the glass was much easier to move. She shifted her attention to Dr. Stallard, staring at him and smirking, then moved the glass toward him and set it back in his hand despite him not having asked her to.

The audience murmured. Fallon took several seconds and then caught her breath, gasping visibly, much to her chagrin.

“I believe you’ve reached the third tier, C5,” Dr. Stallard said. “Welcome to graduation, and to fieldwork. Given that you’ve already passed your other requirements, you’ll be the first to join some of the young men of Class B in the field.”

“It would be my honor, Doctor,” Fallon said.

Everyone clapped, including General Price. Even Maria joined in, though with a slight delay and no smile. She, as Fallon’s elder, had been upstaged. Jax whistled from the audience.

“Thank you, C5,” Dr. Stallard continued, sounding robotic. Not even now would he act fatherly. “You have elevated today’s test with a new telekinetic record. Please return to your position.”

Fallon nodded to him respectfully, then walked back to the line of girls. She looked at Maria and smirked, because why not. Maria’s expression darkened.

The next couple of tier two Class C subjects, Jolce and Zarina, were boring. Yet again, they failed the distance test for tier three. A few yards deeper than their prior tests, sure, but not even to forty, and as such they weren’t invited to try the precision test. Quinn gave it her shot too and failed, of course.

Then there were several tests by the younger ones, thirteen and fourteen years old. Some tier one testers moved to tier two by demonstrating independent control of the tungsten ball and the three tennis balls for the first time. A couple remained in tier one. Fallon had trouble caring either way, except for the last girl. Sara. Twelve years old now, and she still couldn’t levitate a single object. A retard, basically.

“And C17,” Dr. Stallard said, looking toward her. “Please step forward.”

“I still can’t do it,” Sara said. “I’m sorry.”

He continued to stare. “Even shortcomings are worth documenting. Step forward.”

Fallon couldn’t help but crack a smile.

After a moment’s hesitation, Sara walked out to the starting position. A quiet girl with long, platinum-blond hair, she was the class failure. Dr. Stallard and his lab dorks sometimes tweaked the genetic modification a bit from subject to subject to test different iterations, and with Sara it’d been a misfire. She had the same special eyes, fast reflexes, and enhanced healing as all the rest, but she lacked telekinesis almost entirely. And she didn’t have the superior strength that the boys in Class B had either, of course. Worthless.

“Just try to lift one of the tennis balls, C17,” Dr. Stallard said.

Sara took a deep breath, narrowed her eyes, and made an exaggerated grasping motion with her right hand. The air didn’t seem to chill, and the tennis ball barely wobbled. Sara kept her hand in a clawlike grasp, gritting her teeth in effort, but to no avail. Eventually she gasped, breathing hard, and looked down at her feet as the tennis ball went still.

“Why do you think you still can’t lift it?” Dr. Stallard asked.

“I don’t know. I can grip it, but it feels like it weighs a thousand pounds.”

“For the record,” Dr. Stallard said to the room, “the ability is present, but the magnitude is wrong. C17 is like the rest of the class in all other respects, but the method we tried on her failed. We iterate the gene-editing process to optimize it, but in this one case, we seem to have erred.”

One case? Fallon thought. C1 had died of a brain tumor as a toddler before even choosing a name for herself. Morgan, C2, had gone crazy a couple of years ago and was put down. Heather, C4, killed herself last year. And Amber, C11, died from a brain hemorrhage in the middle of mentally lifting an object when she was eight.

Dr. Stallard rubbed his beard and scanned the line of girls. “I want to try something new today. C3, please step back up here.”

Maria raised her eyebrows. She turned to her right and glanced at Fallon, who shrugged in return. Maria walked out onto the field.

“Though I’ve not authorized it,” Dr. Stallard said, “I know some of you like to do your little duels. C3, I want you to do that with C17. Perhaps a bit of pressure will get it out of her.”

Sara’s eyes widened.

“I’m not one of those who duels,” Maria said.

“But you know how they work, yes?”

Maria nodded.

“Good.” He gestured to Sara. “Apply it to C17 here for motivation. Start with a push.”

Silence settled oddly over the field. Several of the lab dorks glanced at each other, and one of the outsiders in suits cleared his throat.

Maria scanned the audience, then turned back to Dr. Stallard. “But she doesn’t have any defenses. It’s unfair.”

Dr. Stallard chuckled and looked at the outsiders in suits and military uniforms. “I’m sure some people here take their children to martial arts lessons, correct? Or football? Sometimes what is needed to learn is pain. Applied safely.” He turned back toward Maria. “I’m not asking you to injure her. Just apply some pressure.”

Maria eyed Sara up and down. The girl trembled. A teenager against a child. Maria turned and paced a few yards away, then spun back around. “Ready?”

Sara glanced at Dr. Stallard, who stared back at her, stone-faced. She looked back at Maria, took another deep breath, and nodded. Immediately, Sara let out a yelp as she flew back several feet and landed hard on her back. Maria was holding out her right palm, which she had just thrust forward.

“Push your classmate back, C17,” Dr. Stallard said.

Sara scrambled back to her feet. “I can’t do it!”

Dr. Stallard looked over toward Maria. “Again.”

Maria met his eyes in return. “But I—”

“I said again, C3.”

Maria grimaced and took a deep breath. She pushed on Sara a second time, but with a bit less force. The girl was slammed back several feet. She staggered to catch herself, as though she’d been punched hard in the chest, but managed not to fall. Her eyes watered, and she looked over at eleven-year-old Damien, one of the creepy children of Class D that she spent most of her time with. As though he could save her.

“Concentrate, C17,” Dr. Stallard said, drawing out each syllable. “If you want this to end, just push your classmate once.”

Sara narrowed her eyes and pushed her palm toward Maria, but with no effect. Maria looked at Dr. Stallard.

“Again.”

Maria pushed Sara once more, gently this time, only forcing her to take a couple of steps back to avoid tripping.

Dr. Stallard clicked his tongue. “That wasn’t a real push. Again.”

Maria sighed and looked at Sara. “Sir . . . I can’t. It’s just—”

“Go back in line, C3, thank you. C5, please come up here.”

Fallon perked up. Oh, this’ll be fun. With no hesitation, she strode out to the field as Maria returned to the line. Fallon watched her as they crossed paths, but Maria wouldn’t make eye contact.

Duels were about two things: speed and power. If the opponent tried to move your body, you could negate, redirect, or “grab” their focus with yours, assuming you were powerful enough. Although they were invisible to normal people, telekineticists could see each other’s foci and bracers when they were active, like four ghostly limbs with flexible shapes. Telekinetic duels would end when one knocked the other off their feet, either because they reacted too slowly or because they were too weak to negate or redirect a force against them.

Sara looked at Fallon with glassy eyes, and Fallon smiled. Then she pushed.

Sara lifted off her feet and flew back even farther than when Maria had pushed her the first time. She landed on her side with a gasp, then clutched her ribs and started crying silently. Fallon looked around the field as some of the observers whispered to each other. Emmett, one of the senior lab dorks, squeezed the railing in front of him, furrowing his brow. The silly motherly woman, Michelle, frowned and murmured something to Emmett. General Price just watched with a stern face. Approving.

Sara stayed down, red-faced and pouting, until Dr. Stallard shouted at her to stand. Visibly startled—Dr. Stallard rarely raised his voice—Sara got back to her feet, sniffling. Her messy blond hair covered half her face, stuck to her cheeks by the tears. Pathetic.

Fallon struck a second time without Dr. Stallard having to tell her. Sara tried to use one of her foci to block it, but it was feeble, and Fallon’s focus punched through it like a piece of paper. The girl hit the ground again but somehow got back up right away.

Red-faced, teary-eyed, and with a furious expression, she slid one foot behind herself for more leverage to physically resist the next push. Adorable.

Fallon pulled this time, her hand making a grasping motion, and Sara flew forward as if shoved from her backside, letting out a surprised yelp as she did.

Fallon made sure to do these pushes and pulls with a slight diagonal upward tilt each time, to generate some lift. Might as well please the crowd. The girl landed hard a few feet in front of Fallon, barely breaking her fall with her hands in time. Then she clutched her wrist and started crying audibly. Fractured, probably.

“Okay, that’s enough,” Dr. Stallard said with a sense of disgust. Whispers rose from among the audience.

Fallon took a couple of steps toward Sara and looked down at her. She was on her knees, quivering and clutching her wrist. The funny thing was that Dr. Stallard wouldn’t be able to blame Fallon for this, not after having told Maria to go harder.

Sara looked up with a sniffle, and Fallon offered out her hand to help her up. Then she squeezed. Telekinesis consisted of more than just pushes and pulls. Like how someone could crush an aluminum can with their hand, Fallon could do it with her mind. But instead of a can, in this case it was Sara’s throat.

With her second focus, she locked down Sara’s arms and legs, preventing them from moving an inch. She could control all four limbs with her second focus, as long as she applied the same directional force to each of them, like she did with the tennis balls. Sara remained frozen on her knees, clutching her wrist, looking up with that pathetic wet face. She widened her eyes and gasped silently for air, but to anyone farther away it probably still looked like crying.

“It’s okay, take my hand,” Fallon said with a smile. She felt Sara frantically trying to move, but kept her locked down. Relative to throwing a three-hundred-pound tungsten ball eighty-seven yards, paralyzing someone was easy, despite her growing headache. She even did it without making any hand motions.

Although most of the younger girls required those gestures to focus properly, Fallon and Maria did not. The motions weren’t strictly necessary, just helpful in aiding concentration for precision or power due to the close connections between their arms and foci within their brain structures. Practicing without them was one of the things they did once they reached tier two, since it was often useful to hide what one was doing. Fallon just stood there, holding out her hand toward Sara, pretending to offer to help her up while mentally squeezing her throat and keeping her still.

Seconds passed, and Sara’s face grew redder. She couldn’t even move her head, with the mental clutch around her neck. Or make a sound. Seconds more. Exhilaration blossomed in Fallon’s chest; the girl’s life was in her hands. She stared into Sara’s eyes, watching every twitch and flicker of her pupils as her panic grew.

Unfortunately, it would become increasingly noticeable to onlookers if she kept Sara in this position, looking up for too long without movement. She tilted Sara’s throat a bit, forcing her to look down. On her knees, clutching her wrist, staring at the floor, and shaking. Fallon couldn’t see her eyes anymore, but the position looked more natural.

“Sara, what’s wrong?” Fallon asked out loud. She went down to one knee and stroked Sara’s hair. “It’s over now, you’re okay. Does your wrist hurt?”

She could feel every feeble attempt the girl made to move and prevented her from doing so. She caressed her hair twice more to appear comforting, letting more time flow by. “You’re a knife with a dull blade,” she whispered, low enough so that only Sara would hear. “Maybe I should put you out of your misery. Would you like that?”

“Go back in line, C5. I’ll take it from here.” Dr. Stallard’s voice. Fallon glanced up, startled. He stood right next to them. She’d been too focused on Sara to notice him come over. The air had chilled around them, and he surely felt it. His eyes looked grim. “Now.”

Sara’s struggles were weakening anyway. If Fallon held any longer, the girl would go unconscious. So, she released her. Sara gasped and coughed, then fell to her side into a little ball, clutching her throat.

“I was only trying to help. I don’t know what’s wrong with her,” Fallon said with the sweetest voice she could muster, for the room to hear. She shrugged and walked back to the line of her classmates. The audience couldn’t see what she’d done, but the girls could, including Maria. They all stared at Fallon with horrified expressions.

Good, she thought.







Chapter 4



Asim called an all-hands case team meeting, and over two dozen faces looked up at him as he stood at the head of their conference room table. ACI was working on other cases simultaneously, but this one was by far the strangest, and he needed progress now.

It’d been eight days since the New Jersey rest stop murder and seven since the Brooklyn alley slaughter. Despite ACI’s coordination with the FBI and others, the two potential captives were still unaccounted for, and the case had practically gone cold.

Part of the complication was that he couldn’t put Roy on the official record as his source about the green-eyed ones being black-ops soldiers and assassins from the Red Sea War and elsewhere. He’d quietly told Ava and Flanagan about it to guide their searches, but he couldn’t really tell anyone else.

“So, let’s see here,” Asim said to the room, feeling the pressure of so many eyes. Fortunately, he’d made sure not to be too hungover for this. “No ID from Johnson’s eye analysis, since there aren’t any clinics capable of this. But the complexity suggests DoD funding. They all have GPS trackers, and one of them has an unidentifiable neural implant. And we have other strange elements in this case, such as massive blood loss for three bodies through the skin, a nearly seven-foot armored man thrown into a wall hard enough to destabilize the building, and evidence of a van being launched a hundred yards.”

He raised his eyebrows and continued. “We’ve also faced unprecedented legal roadblocks trying to get a court order to force Eidolon Solutions, employer of the two identifiable bodies and owner of the busted van, to release client info. Whoever the client is, they’re more tied in than us. And nobody’s supposed to be more tied in than us. Even those ex-military operatives’ families won’t talk.”

Asim looked around, seeing if anyone had any comments or objections. No one did.

“Yet the part that is frankly unfathomable to me,” he said, “is how we can’t identify this fucking prostitute. The most mundane aspect of this whole case. I know the footage was grainy and in its shitty night mode, but what sample size could we be dealing with here? It’s not like she commutes from Ohio every day for work. She’s almost certainly around Brooklyn. People know her. How have none of our bots found any good patterns yet?”

They’d long since identified the prostitute’s three dead associates, but none of their relatives knew much about their illicit activities or with whom they worked. And criminals tended not to leave extensive records—they dealt in cash and off-the-record relational deals. One of them was believed to have owned bitcoin that had moved on the blockchain two days after his death, but because of privacy measures he’d taken, their chain analysis bots were only 87 percent certain it had been his in the first place.

A street-level canvass of businesses and potential contacts had produced a few clues about the prostitute. The first was that people only knew her by the nickname “Jitters.” The second was that she changed her hair color often but tended to default back to ruby red frequently. And the third was that she worked as a stripper and escort but had recently gotten into mugging with those men as well. Probably to skip the sex and move straight to the money.

“Brooklyn has some of the worst camera density in the Northeast, sir,” Ava said. “People keep disrupting them.”

“But still, how hard is it to find a red-headed prostitute that goes by fucking Jitters?” Asim asked. “Is it a problem of not enough people on the ground? Tell me how I can help.”

“Locals seem to like her,” Flanagan offered, raising his shoulders. He was Asim’s most senior analyst, a rotund civilian in his sixties, with a thick head of gray hair and a handlebar mustache. “There are a few grocery clerks that say they don’t know her, but we suspect they do. Even so, they won’t necessarily know her real name or address. We found the strip club she works at, but they didn’t collect all the employment info they were supposed to from her, and she hasn’t shown up since her abduction. She was popular there.”

“And the more polite term is sex worker, sir,” Ava added.

Asim sighed and pinched the bridge of his nose. “Fine. I want an updated list of every one of her acquaintances and their addresses. Including any repeat clients if possible. Someone knows her real name.”

“In addition to these other leads, I think we should focus more on the online activity, sir,” Ava said. “I’m still trying to make sense of it.”

“What’s the latest?” Asim asked.

“Well sir, I’d say that the defining characteristic is noise.” Ava had a knack for overseeing more autonomous AI agents at once than anyone else in their division; she could make sense of an enormous amount of data as they collected it for her. “Someone else’s bots are really focused on this. To an unusual degree.”

Asim had heard this multiple times from her and tried to make use of it somehow without any clear angle, but since this was an all-hands meeting, he made sure to broadcast the knowledge to the whole group. “Give us the current overview.”

“Yes, sir. The rest stop incident has accumulated a ton of social media activity in the edge realms, despite our attempts to contain data leaks. Within the first seventy-two hours, there were already thousands of posts adamantly arguing for different viewpoints. With so much content being bot-generated, it’s hard to be sure of any narrative’s origin. We collected a few main themes with significant social graph support, though.”

She continued, failing to hold back a smirk while raising one finger. “One popular view is that this is related to aliens. A subset of these posts claim that the nearby Stolguard Biological Research Facility was involved.” She raised a second finger to join the first. “Another popular view is that this is a false show of force by the US military for China, and that anything coming out soon will be faked via computer graphics and psyops, to pretend that we’re further along in bioweapon technology than we are.” Her third finger went up. “Another, much less popular view is that this was related to mutants, and that the Stolguard facility made super-soldiers, but that its director quietly built something more dangerous therein. A ‘dark god’ was one of the phrasings used. And there’s plenty of debate, of course.”

She looked around the room and lowered her hand. “There are hundreds of identities throughout the edge realms claiming to be the murderer, and a lot of them are making increasingly grandiose claims about these aliens or super-soldiers. Based on our analysis, the most credible claims from all this chatter seem to involve the Stolguard facility in some way. It’s only an hour’s drive from the rest stop crime scene. Our surveillance work traced the black van back to a highway exit right near it, along with other black vans as well, and the two deceased Eidolon Solutions ex-military operatives found at the rest stop have residences within commuting distance. The facility hasn’t returned any of our inquiries, and our warrant is stuck in limbo. They even turned some of our agents away at the front gate.”

“Aliens, psyops, and mutants are all fascinating,” Asim said, “but ultimately, we have three credible leads to focus on from all of this. The first is that prostitute, or sex worker. Because she’s our best clue to where the perp went next. The fact that we haven’t even identified someone who goes by ‘Jitters’ yet is embarrassing. The second is to find out more about this Stolguard facility. The third is to identify the client of Eidolon Solutions that those dead ex-military operatives had been assigned to. With the Stolguard facility, we have a likely candidate. Nobody’s supposed to be able to ignore our calls.”

“Wouldn’t it be easier to go to the top?” Flanagan asked. “Maybe Davis can connect us to whatever group created this problem faster than we can work it bottom-up from the streets.”

“You assume I haven’t tried that already?” Asim asked, raising his voice more than he intended. “You think I just saw a bunch of black-ops bodies at the rest stop, got blocked on the Eidolon client list and stonewalled by Stolguard, and never asked my commander for help with identification? There’s a wall here. Interdivision conflict. An impenetrable line drawn that I’ve never seen before. Which means we actually have to do our jobs for a change.”

Flanagan nodded and looked down at his coffee. In that moment, seeing the older man’s mustache droop, Asim felt more disgusted with himself than with his team. Ever since he’d returned from the war, his job had been simple: to use the government’s best surveillance resources to find and stop spies, saboteurs, and terrorists. Computers did most of the legwork.

One crazy exception was the Miles case, which had pushed him past his limits. But after his success and promotion from that national mess into his current role, work became smooth again. It was almost as if after he won once—overwhelmingly—and turned into a bureaucratic celebrity for it, everything became easy.

Too easy. Out-of-touch easy. It started not to matter what he did anymore.

Other than watching his team use cameras and data searches facilitated by AI, Asim knew in his heart that he barely did anything now. This was a cushy job after the war, after his prior success, and a prostitute called Jitters had somehow circumvented all of it.

People in the room looked up at him with mixed expressions. Right. Time to turn this around. He had read enough self-help books to know that, first and foremost, he shouldn’t be a self-absorbed emotional asshole.

“Look,” he said, softening his voice. “We’ve got the best resources for a case like this. But once or twice in our time together, we’ve hit a wall. Something that we can’t just out-surveil. So, we need to be real detectives again, and all of you were drawn from elite backgrounds. In some sense, you did so well at your jobs that you barely needed to do them anymore.” He took a breath and made sure to project. “Well, now I need your best work again. Others have intel on this that we don’t have access to, and we need to work for it the hard way. I have faith in all of you. Find me Jitters. Find me new angles. I’ll work on getting more intel on the Stolguard facility.”



Asim sat in one of his bosses’ offices at the Pentagon. “Since we’re still held up by the court on Eidolon Solutions’ client list, I’m again requesting direct access to whoever runs the Stolguard facility, sir. I’ve never seen this much resistance to basic info requests from inside our own system. The case is going cold.”

Across from him sat Brigadier General Tyler Davis, a tall, intense, dark-skinned man in his fifties with the deepest voice of anyone he knew. Asim viewed him as the prototypical general—he looked and sounded exactly like the type of guy who was cast to play every hard-ass general in the movies. The man served as the commander of ACI, with Asim serving as his number two and running most of the day-to-day operations.

Two days had passed since Asim’s all-hands meeting with his case team, and top-secret bureaucracy still stood in the way. It had never been an issue for him in the past, so he had to push again rather than sit on his hands.

To complicate matters, he’d been reporting to multiple offices lately. Usually, he was stationed at Fort Meade in Maryland. But Davis, Asim’s boss, was serving on a temporary assignment at the Pentagon and needed in-person updates once or twice per week. Occasionally, Asim had to get his ass all the way over to Fort Belvoir in Virginia, where his boss’s boss, Major General Ashley Scholl, also needed some updates.

“Scholl and I already brought it up with the Joint Chiefs,” Davis said. “We were told sensitive matters are in play and it’s being handled. I’m not elevating it again unless something materially changes. The fact the case has gone cold may be evidence it’s already contained. Have you considered the possibility that they’ve caught their rogue operative, and the captives are either paid off or quietly in custody for relocation?”

Asim had thought of that, of course. But he couldn’t wrap up a case like this without closure. “Can we at least request confirmation once it’s been handled, sir?”

“I think I can do that, in time,” Davis said, checking his watch. “It’s awkward, since it would be an admission of an off-the-books program. But I can probably get a private word once it’s done, to avoid wasting resources. I’ve unfortunately got a call in a moment. Interagency stuff.”

“Thank you, sir.” Asim smiled and stood up from his chair. “How’s Elijah doing? Did he make varsity? I’ve been meaning to ask.”

Davis’s expression softened. Like magic, the general transformed into a father. It helped, knowing people’s buttons. “He did, actually. The only sophomore who made the cut. The boy’s nearly my height already, if you can believe it.”

“Already?” Asim said. “Time sure as hell flies, doesn’t it?”

“Ain’t that the truth.” Davis chuckled. “Well, I’ll tell him you asked.”

“Thank you, sir,” Asim said, nodding and turning to leave. “And say hi to Alexis for me, if you would.”

“Will do,” Davis said warmly.

Asim left the office, gave a polite wave to the man’s secretary, and stepped into the Pentagon’s outer-ring corridor. It was the largest office building in the country, consisting of five separate concentric rings with connecting halls linking them together. Many of the inner ring’s office windows faced the central courtyard. The middle three rings had shitty window views, where you’d only see a thin courtyard and the wall of the next ring. The outer ring had the prime offices with the best views, reserved for the generals and other VIPs.

With business here done for the day, Asim exited the Pentagon on the side closest to the nearby metro station and boarded a train that would take him halfway back to Fort Meade, where one of ACI’s private cars would pick him up for the remainder of the trip. At his rank, he was supposed to have a car take him the whole way, but switching it up made him feel younger and a bit more connected to the world, rather than observing it from his own little bubble the entire ride.

Ah, a true man of the people, he thought sarcastically, catching his own ruminations. Not that it really mattered; nearly everyone on the train was focused on their phones or augmented glasses anyway.

Once he transferred to the car, with no more people to watch, Asim pulled out his phone and slid over to his contacts, lingering on his daughter’s number. Davis’s pride in his son had stirred something. Yasmin was probably off slaying a dragon with her friends in some fantasy realm. With a sigh, he pocketed the phone. She’d made it clear what she thought of him calling her out of the blue—or almost at all, for that matter.

When he arrived at his case team’s central conference room, a dozen agents and analysts were gathered around the wall-mounted TV.

“Did I miss something?” He directed the question to Ava but spoke loud enough for anyone to answer.

“An attack on NewsCon in Manhattan, sir. A terrorist has the newsroom hostage.”

Asim approached, studying the screen as his team parted for him. A pale woman in her twenties with those same strange green eyes held the newsroom at gunpoint.

So much for this being handled.







Chapter 5



“It’s recording?” asked the green-eyed woman in a low voice, staring into the camera without blinking. Her pupils were narrow vertical slits. Messy black hair, parted to one side, fell past her shoulders. She held a pistol in her right hand, pointed at the anchorwoman’s head.

“Yes,” a nervous male voice said from behind the camera.

“It better be.” She glanced down at her anchorwoman hostage, who sat trembling at the news desk, hands raised, breathing heavily. When the gunwoman looked back up toward the camera, Asim focused on her left eye. A vertical scar ran over it from her forehead to her cheek, and a second horizontal scar cut from the corner of her eye to her temple.

She still hadn’t blinked, which unnerved him as he watched.

“Listen to me,” she said. “I’m a—Didn’t I say not to move?” She looked toward someone in the studio, narrowing her eyes as she glanced off-camera. Her voice remained quiet, but those vertical pupils made her seem predatory by default, and nearly impossible to read. He couldn’t place any specific accent, either.

After a few seconds, she refocused back on the camera, exhaled tensely, and finally blinked. “I’m a new species of human, made by your government. You’ve ignored my messages, so I’ve had to come to you.”

“Eh, I was hoping for the alien theory rather than mutants, but alas,” Ava said, then sighed. Asim glanced over at her in disbelief.

“We’re soldiers and assassins,” the woman continued. “But something worse is—” The news feed went blank.

“Fuck.” Asim pulled out his phone and frantically brought up another news channel, to see what they were reporting. “Someone message Beth to get a chopper ready. I need to head to New York now. And get the FBI’s New York field office on the phone.”

“Security cameras caught the Caucasian female suspect entering the lobby minutes ago, shown here courtesy of NewsCon,” said an anchorman on Global News from Asim’s phone. “We must warn you that the footage is quite graphic.”

Asim glanced back up at the conference room screen to check on NewsCon, which was still offline, then down to his phone to watch the footage from Global News.

The woman, wearing a black overcoat, a thin armored vest, sunglasses, and combat boots, stepped into the lobby from the Manhattan street. She reached out with her right hand. Two security guards flew back like rag dolls into the wall, dropping limp to the floor after impact. She looked left as two other security guards pulled out pistols. Her left hand made a gripping motion, followed by a flick of her wrist, and both pistols ripped themselves out of the guards’ hands and flew across the lobby with unbelievable speed. One of them struck the lobby window and burst out onto the street in a spray of glass.

She paused, surveyed the lobby, then took off her sunglasses as multiple guests and receptionists scattered behind counters and furniture. One of the first guards she’d flung into the wall started to recover and pull out a pistol, so she reached out and pushed him back against the wall harder, then flicked her hand dismissively as his pistol flew across the room.

She pointed at a male receptionist, interrupting his process of ducking down behind the counter, and said something to him. He froze, then slowly stood back up, hands raised. He nodded and said something back.

Behind her, a tall man in a suit, who’d been standing next to the door on his phone when she entered, tried to sneak up and tackle her to the floor. Inch by inch, he closed the distance. But a few steps before he reached her, she turned her head to the left and glanced back at him out of the corner of her scarred eye. He lifted off the floor, flew in a tall arc over her head, and crashed down into one of the reception desks, with her emotionless face tracking his movement the whole way. After the impact, the man rolled off the desk and dropped to the floor, thrashing and reaching for his back, face contorted in pain.

The woman looked toward the elevators and said something to the same male receptionist as before, unholstered a pistol from her hip, then held it at her side with its muzzle pointing down. The receptionist nodded back and rushed over to the elevators. The woman followed him more slowly, turning to scan the lobby once more. After several more seconds of unrecorded dialogue, the two of them disappeared into one of the elevators.

“As you can see,” the anchorman said, hesitancy clear in his voice, “the suspect seems to have, well, unusual abilities. Pushing and pulling things through the air. We’re getting reports that—”

“NewsCon is back,” Ava said, and gestured for Asim to watch the television on the wall.

The live feed from the newsroom looked much the same as before. But now the green-eyed woman’s attention was fixed on something off to the right of the camera, her pistol lowered to her side instead of aimed at the anchorwoman. The anchorwoman’s head was down on the news desk, clutched in her hands, her shoulders shaking as blood stained her curly blond hair. The anchorman beside her held one hand on her back, concern etched across his tanned face. From the look of it, she’d taken a pistol-whip, not a bullet.

“Good,” the green-eyed woman said to someone off-camera. “Tell him that if the feed goes off again, I’ll kill her. Then I’ll kill another one every minute until it comes back on.”

Turning her gaze back toward the camera, she took a deep breath. Some of her black hair fell from behind her ear to cover the left side of her face, and she didn’t bother to push it back. “The Stolguard Biological Research Facility is breeding new species of human, like me.” She brought up the pistol and tapped its muzzle to her upper cheek, aimed at one of her eyes, emphasizing its strangeness.

She lowered the pistol and looked up at the ceiling. As her left hand curled into a grasping motion, one of the large stage lights telekinetically tore free, metal screeching over the broadcast. It levitated down to the center of the newsroom, then crushed in on itself with a sharp, echoing pop as she squeezed her fist closed. Glass shards sprayed in every direction.

The anchorman recoiled from the burst of sound and flying glass, shielding his face with his arms. The anchorwoman, still face down on the desk and clutching her head, trembled and gasped. The attacker stood motionless, unflinching even as shards sprayed at her, then turned her attention back to the camera. She opened her hand and let the crumpled stage light drop to the floor with a heavy metallic bang.

“Now, there’s something even . . .” The woman glanced away from the screen again and trailed off. Her jaw tightened and her eyes narrowed as she reached out with her left hand. The sound of automatic gunfire blared. Screams came from somewhere in the studio, and the feed went offline.

“That anchorwoman,” Ava whispered, eyes wide. “She’ll kill her.”

Asim took a deep breath to steady his dread. “Zhou and Brooks, you’re with me.” He unmuted his phone to listen to Global News as he power-walked toward the helipad with Ava and Brooks close behind. Baby-faced and with brown hair parted to one side, Brooks was one of ACI’s newest agents, fresh out of training, and Ava had taken him under her wing since he’d joined.

“We’re told that a shootout with police has broken out at NewsCon,” the anchorman said gravely. “We don’t yet know the—”

Asim muted it again. “She’s our perp,” he said. “Same armor and pistol models as the rest stop operatives. Same body language as the Brooklyn video. There’s no way she makes it out of that building. But if she dies, we’ll lose the chance to find the two captives, or any confirmation of what caused this mess.” He already suspected the captives were dead. Now he worried he’d never know. What if they were trapped somewhere, while police killed their captor?

Asim listened to the news for several minutes, but they were just repeating the situation, waiting for updates.

“I have several of our bots scanning social media, sir,” Ava said.

Asim nodded, waiting.

What happened here? This woman had likely turned on the others of her kind for some reason. Her behavior showed signs of psychopathy: few blinks, the unnerving way she pointed her pistol up at her own eye, and the quiet ease with which she threatened death.

“She’s out,” Ava said. “There’s a bystander clip on social media. Just posted. Look, sir.”

Asim watched Ava’s tablet. A shaky phone camera, filming from across the street, showed the skyscraper’s lobby. Dozens of police officers surrounded the building, using their cars and armored vehicles for cover. Overhead, a few specialized hovercars thrummed above the street, used by police to bypass earthbound traffic and reach upper floors of buildings.

“I dunno. I dunno. The police be getting tense now,” said the man holding the camera. “I dunno.”

The anchorman stepped out of the lobby, hands raised, with the woman close behind, her pistol pressed to the back of his head. She no longer wore her overcoat. As they reached the curb, a policeman’s voice boomed through a megaphone. “Release the hostage and put down the gun.”

“Oh, this bitch ’bout to get sniped,” the camera man said. “I’m tellin’ you.”

But the woman gritted her teeth and raised her left fist. A dozen police vehicles shot into the air with a grinding metallic roar, flying easily three stories high, colliding with the hovercars above as screams rang out.

Frost formed along the ground at her feet, and visible breath came from both her and the anchorman. She thrust her arm down. Everything crashed back to the street far faster than gravity alone would pull, shattering on impact. Metal shrieked. Barricades, vehicle parts, police drones—and bodies—flew in all directions. An armored SWAT vehicle punched straight down through the asphalt with a deafening crash, dragging part of the street with it into the sewers or subway below.

“Oh shit!” the camera man shouted, stumbling back as debris flew toward him, car alarms blaring in the background. The video shook violently, but AI stabilization kicked in after a second, stilling it.

Several police officers positioned far back, behind the impromptu camera man and outside of the impact radius of the fallen vehicles, opened fire on the attacker with their rifles, but with her pistol hand she reached out and . . . stopped the bullets midair. It was as if they bounced off an invisible shield, falling to the ground where she stood. More shots followed, but they only added to the growing pile.

With most of the officers dead or disrupted amid the carnage of shattered vehicles, and the snipers rendered ineffective, the woman walked forward. Clenching her fist near her chest, every muscle stretched tight in her lean forearm, she telekinetically pulled three ruined cars over to her, using them as a levitating shield to protect against additional shots. She reached the caved-in part of the street, dropped in, and crashed her floating vehicle shield over the hole.



As he flew from Fort Meade to Manhattan to examine the scene and coordinate with the FBI there, Asim took a few minutes between calls to come to terms with the existence of forces he didn’t understand.

Things he’d only seen in movies.

Enhanced strength, reflexes, and healing were simple enough to conceptualize. Hell, he even understood those owl-cat eyes, as bizarre a feat of bioengineering as they were. But to project invisible force at a distance, outside of the electromagnetic spectrum?

Then again, Asim had to admit he didn’t really know how something as basic as gravity worked. General relativity and its description of curved spacetime, if presented to him as a new concept, would have sounded like lunacy. But nonetheless, it was true. Psionic forces didn’t seem any stranger than that, just newer. Was this a fifth force of the universe, alongside the four known ones? Or a new use of an existing force? Or maybe they really were just in a fucking simulation after all.

After spending a while lost in her tablet, Ava turned to him. “The internet is absolutely raging with debate about this, sir, in both the core realms and the edge realms. My bots are organizing it as much as possible.”

“Tell me.”

“Yes, sir. So far, the leading theory is that NewsCon faked the whole thing with AI graphics. For the views, apparently. People—or bots—are even claiming the early witness videos from the street are fakes, planted by NewsCon as well. Those videos were already deleted from the core realms, but versions of them are still floating around in the edge realms, of course. I’m almost certain those videos are real.”

Asim nodded. Ever since it became possible to generate realistic videos in seconds from a simple prompt, believability had fallen off a cliff. It was hard to imagine that back in the old days, videos once counted as hard proof for anything. Cryptographically signed metadata could still help with verification, at least partially, but those methods weren’t foolproof, and with all the spam in the edge realms—the decentralized edges of social media and VR—most people didn’t bother.

He knew from direct FBI contacts in the city that the casualties were real. The attacker had spared the anchorwoman, despite the live feed going off a second time. She hadn’t been harmed beyond the pistol-whip. The anchorman the attacker had taken as a hostage on her way out of the building hadn’t been hurt at all. But the two security guards who’d been flung against the wall were in serious condition with head injuries, and the man she threw across the lobby onto the reception desk had suffered a fractured spine.

It was the police death count that kept climbing, as more officers succumbed to critical injuries over the past hour. The woman’s second live broadcast had been disrupted by a SWAT team storming the newsroom. Both the wounds and witness reports said the same thing: as officers fired at her with assault rifles, she stopped dozens of bullets midair, then pushed them back through the bodies of those who shot them—straight through their armor with the velocity of a railgun. Eight officers died, and two were injured.

The worst carnage, though, had happened outside. Thirteen additional officers were dead and a dozen more were injured, along with two reporters. Police had deployed two drones down the street hole she’d escaped into, which had collapsed into a sewer. Each drone took a different path, and the southward one recorded two reflective eyes in the dark before its signal went dead.

More than an hour after the attack, there was still no trace of her beyond that drone, which they’d found crushed. A second wave of police sent in more drones, scouring sewers and subways, but there were too many connections and side tunnels.

Using Asim’s surveillance authorization signatures, Flanagan’s team at ACI headquarters had traced the woman’s arrival at the newsroom lobby backward through Manhattan’s street and subway cameras to the Bronx an hour prior, but they lost track of her beyond that point, where camera density was lower.

“I want the elevator footage of the attacker,” Asim told Ava.

“Of course, sir. But they’re already buttoning up footage, so we’ll probably have to fight for whatever they have,” she said. “They’re always stingy about giving over content unless they get paid for it. Imagine how much Global News must have paid NewsCon for their lobby footage in nearly real time. And they all stopped showing what they’ve already shown. I’ve never seen a pivot that fast.”

“What do you mean?” Asim asked.

“After the first hour, the news stations stopped showing both the lobby footage and the newsroom footage, sir. Now they’re downplaying the scale of the attack and only showing a few still frames when they talk about it, speaking as if she’s just a gunwoman. The news pivoted right when they scrubbed videos of the incident from the core realms.”

“But that would mean . . . huh.” Someone in the government really wanted this contained. More than was usually possible. “What else have you found?”

Ava shrugged. “There are a ton of fake videos in the edge realms now, including both serious forgeries and memes, but every time I run analysis on that first video from the street, it turns out not to be AI-generated. That’s at least 97 percent certain. The metadata seems uncorrupted and there’s nothing in the video that differs from the real spot it was supposedly filmed from. But I’ll verify the scene more in person once we get there, sir.”

“Good to know.”

“And someone’s bots are out in full force, sir. A higher than normal percentage of the chatter, and with sophisticated attempts to mask their organizational patterns. There are armies of them posting and saying the same things as before—that the terrorist is a delusional renegade soldier, or that she’s an alien in human disguise, or that the news corporations staged all of this, or that the government faked it to demonstrate capabilities that don’t exist to their enemies as a false show of force.”

Asim watched the approaching Manhattan skyline and sighed. “We’re not supposed to be on this side of the curtain.”







Chapter 6





Eight Years Earlier


I do not believe in God. Not because it cannot exist, but rather because we have yet to create it. Prokaryotes birthed eukaryotes. Eukaryotes birthed plants, fungi, and animals. From the top of that chain arose humanity. The purpose of humanity, I believe, is to create God in our image.

–TS log 11257, excerpt

“Fifty-one. Fifty-two. Fifty . . . uh . . .” Damien counted.

Sara’s arms quivered as she got stuck in her fifty-third pushup. The blue mat was inches from her face, her blond hair draping around her field of view and resting on the floor. But she didn’t relent, and after a few more seconds, she pushed up out of it. She gasped, then took short, controlled breaths to amp herself back up.

“Fifty-three,” Damien said. “That’s already one more than before. You can stop now.”

No, Sara thought. The goal was fifty-five for today. Period. She lowered herself, pushed, and stalled halfway. Every muscle in her lean arms burned, and another bead of sweat dripped off her face onto the mat below, joining the ones already there. Still, she managed to push out of it.

“Fifty-four. Don’t strain yourself, Sara. One or two pushups doesn’t logically make a difference. You’re improving.”

Ignoring him, she went down, pushed, and of course got stuck again. Her arms quivered, this time more violently. Her heart pounded. The pain wasn’t even the problem anymore; she was past that. This was the brink of muscle failure—her body simply refusing to complete the movement. Her arm-shaking increased to a comical degree, and she wondered how silly she must look to Damien. Concentrate. She closed her eyes, growled, and powered up into the final pushup.

“Fifty-five. I’m proud of you,” Damien said as Sara sat back on her knees, breathless.

She looked over at him and smiled. Gasping for air, chest burning with that familiar ache, she couldn’t speak yet. Six months earlier, on her fourteenth birthday, she’d decided to start training harder. She already had to do fitness drills and martial arts like the rest of her class, but she wanted to reach a higher level.

Since she lacked the mental powers that the other girls of Class C had, she’d decided to make up for it elsewhere. Her strength was nothing compared to the boys of Class B, and she wasn’t as smart as the boys of Class D, but with the same special eyes, fast reflexes, and enhanced healing they all shared, she figured that she could still grow up to be . . . a ninja? Something like that.

Damien glanced up at the clock with a tense expression. Sara checked too: 10:54 a.m. “What time do you have to go in?” she asked.

“Twelve.” His tone was grim.

Sara took a few more breaths as her heart rate settled down. Damien, or “D4” officially, was now one of only two members left in his small class. Rudolph, D3, had died the week before from a stroke during an experiment, leaving only Damien and little Marcus, D7. The thought of never seeing Rudolph again felt surreal. She’d known him her whole life, and part of her still expected him to show up again, as though his death had all been some misunderstanding. She reached out and took Damien’s hand. He looked at her, surprised.

“You’ll be okay,” she said between breaths, trying to sound reassuring. She met his bright green eyes, set into his ebony face. His intelligence made him seem older, even though he was only thirteen, a couple of months shy of fourteen. He spoke like an adult.

Damien nodded. “The headaches are the worst part,” he said. “I still have them for days after the tests, even with painkillers. And they’re getting worse.”

Sara searched for more words but came up empty. Instead, she’d bring him a present later, when he was stuck in bed. She didn’t know what present yet, but she’d make something he’d like. One of her folded paper animals.

She’d faced similar problems over the past year as well. Dr. Stallard kept strapping her into an imaging machine every Tuesday to try to coax telekinesis out of her, and she always left in terrible pain. But what Damien went through was worse.

A deep roar echoed through the gym, and they both glanced over. Bronn was on the deadlift machine, completing a single-rep maximum lift. Jolgen, Jax, and Santiago of Class B, all in their early twenties, stood around him. Jax cheered. Sara zoomed in with her special eyes to see the weight: 1,748 pounds. The men of Class B couldn’t use standard bars anymore; they’d snap under the load. They used custom machines instead.

“I think that’s a new facility record. Maybe we should congratulate him,” Damien said. His tone was hesitant, though, and it was clear why. Jolgen was there, and he was dangerous. Santiago kind of was, too. Bronn was the nicest of Class B, and the oldest living one at twenty-four years old. Several of them were aggressive, but he wasn’t.

Sara sighed. “The dumbbells are right next to them anyway, and those are next for today.” She surveyed the large, white-walled gym and saw three armed guards standing near the doors, plus Fallon, Quinn, and Clare on the treadmills. The treadmills would be last for today, after dumbbells, and she wouldn’t go over there until Fallon finished and left the area. “Let’s do it. We haven’t seen him for so long.” She let go of Damien’s hand, and together they stood and walked over.

“Just add two more,” Jolgen was saying, with a slap on Bronn’s back so hard that Sara winced. “You’re right there at seventeen fifty. Nice clean number, that would be.”

“Ha!” Bronn said, panting as he sat down on a nearby piece of equipment. “Nah, that’s good for today. Damn.”

As Sara and Damien drew closer, Bronn looked up and smiled. His face was wide and kind. Even sitting down, he was a mountain of a man, and the three that were standing towered over Sara and Damien. All four men were between six and a half feet and seven feet tall. The taller three wore buzz cuts, while Jax, the shortest, swept his thick, mid-length dark hair back like someone on a magazine cover.

“Congrats, Bronn. We saw from over there,” Sara said.

“We don’t need children in the way,” Jolgen said. “Shoo.”

Bronn frowned, then lit back up. His bright green eyes locked onto Damien. “You want a turn, Dame? I’ll spot you, brother,” he said. His deep voice resonated the way Sara imagined an Olympian god’s would. The other men looked at Damien, except Jolgen, who only rolled his eyes.

“We’re, um, we’re going to use the dumbbells,” Damien said. “Just wanted to say congrats. And that it’s nice to have you back.”

“The fivers are over there.” Jolgen gestured with his sharp chin, referring to the lightest dumbbells. Jax laughed silently.

“Jolgen, man,” Bronn said, looking up at him with furrowed brows.

“Whatever. I’m next, then. Spot me.” Jolgen pointed to Jax and clapped his hands together.

“Can I take a turn?” Fallon asked sweetly. Sara glanced back, startled. Her classmate, who stood a few inches taller than her and was eighteen years old now, was standing directly behind her right shoulder.

Panic tightened in her stomach like a knot. But Fallon’s gaze and fake smile were fixed on Jolgen. Sara seized the chance to step a few feet to the side, trying to make it look casual, as though she were just politely making room now that more people were around. It had been a relief not having Fallon at the facility for the past four months.

“You? Lift?” Jolgen asked. “Be my guest.”

Fallon reached out and waved her hand as though wielding a wand. The machine’s setting clicked to its maximum—two thousand pounds. She turned her palm upward and raised it a few inches as the air chilled and the full ton of weight rose to waist height. The weights then lowered to the bottom and rose again, four more times, until they finally came to a rest as her hand did the same.

“Done,” she said, tensing her jaw but trying to hide it. Likely from a headache. “Thanks for the turn, gentlemen. Got to make sure I’m at my best for Mexico.”

Jax smirked and crossed his arms. Bronn, still sitting, smiled and glanced up at Jolgen. Santiago stared at the weights, his expression unreadable.

“Yeah, well,” Jolgen said, unamused. “Funny. I’m going to take my actual turn now if you don’t mind.” He adjusted the weight down to 1,630 pounds and began amping himself up with deep breaths.

Sara shuddered, remembering the most recent reclassification test from six months ago. Fallon had hurled the tungsten ball so hard that it reached the end of the hundred-yard field and embedded itself deep into the concrete wall at the back. Even the subjects who had graduated into fieldwork still did the test each time to see how far they could push their abilities in front of General Price and other visitors. After that throw, Dr. Stallard classified Fallon as a tier four telekineticist, in a league of her own, with Maria, Jolce, and Zarina in tier three.

Sara still had to go through the humiliating ritual of demonstrating at each test that she still couldn’t perform telekinesis. Though, at least it was without any beatings lately.

On that thought, it was probably best to get even more distance from Fallon. Sara glanced at Damien, then casually slipped away to the dumbbell rack. He followed, and thankfully Fallon did not.

As far as Sara knew, including herself, there were at least two girls and one boy Fallon had hurt, but each instance seemed random, or at least showed no clear pattern she could discern. Most of the time, Fallon only insulted or ignored people she disliked, which wasn’t so bad.

“You first,” Sara said. “Start with the fifteen-pound ones, right?”

She spotted Damien as he pressed the dumbbells overhead. At first, when he’d joined her in the gym, he wouldn’t exercise, content to just be her spotter. But after months of coaxing, she had finally convinced him to do a few sets himself. The boys of Class D were exempt from all fitness requirements since they weren’t destined for fieldwork and had the most strain from their experiments, but it was healthy to do strength training anyway, Sara figured. Marcus was still too young at only five, but for Damien it was useful.

When her turn came, she grabbed another pair of dumbbells and ran through her set. As she lifted, she monitored her form in the wall mirror while discreetly scanning the room as well. Fallon still lingered over there, laughing at something Jax had said about her upcoming assassination mission. He leaned in and kissed her casually. Santiago was grinding through a deadlift nearly as heavy as Bronn’s, while Jolgen watched. And Bronn himself was . . . coming over?

“Good form,” Bronn said. He’d been the one to teach her several additional exercises six months earlier, when she’d told him she wanted to get stronger. “And twenty-fivers already, Sara? At this rate, Jolgen better watch out.”

She smiled, finished her last lift, and put the dumbbells down to hug him, ignoring the dampness and musky scent of his tank top. After a pause, his powerful arms embraced her in return.

As he let go, she pulled away and looked up at him, more at ease now that the dangerous ones weren’t so close. “I missed you. What was the Red Sea like?” He’d returned from four months of fieldwork only yesterday. His stories about the outside world always thrilled her. She’d never left the facility, while he got to see all these exotic places.

His expression darkened. “Successful.” He glanced down at his callused palms, then sighed. “Lots of death. Mostly on the other side. Glad I’m back, at least for a month. It’s better here.”

Sara looked down. She often dreamed about gazing out over the open water in person. A sea or an ocean—the sheer magnitude of it. One of her favorite documentaries from the data library showed the Red Sea to be a beautiful place where people went diving to see colorful fish. But according to rumors of the mission, Bronn and his team of Jolgen, Jax, Santiago, and Fallon had performed a series of nighttime strikes on coastal towns to kill militants and destroy their hidden drone installations.

“Dame,” Bronn said, “I’m sorry to hear about Rudolph. He was a good kid. I know you two were close.”

Damien smiled, but it seemed fake. “Thank you.”

An awkward silence came over them, and Bronn put his massive hand on Damien’s shoulder. Of all the subjects born and raised here, Sara figured the three of them probably hated the facility the most, even if they’d rarely say so aloud. Bronn, or B7, was a soldier who despised war. Sara, C17, was the dud of Class C, and based on Bronn’s tales of fieldwork, she didn’t really want to go to war either. She just wanted to see the world. Damien, D4, the oldest of Class D’s two survivors, was called the most important subject by Dr. Stallard himself, but that was more a curse than a blessing.

Bronn met Sara’s eyes again. “How’s your shooting coming?”

“Pretty well.” She downplayed it; she had one of the highest marksmanship scores in Class C despite being the youngest. The time she saved by not training in telekinesis—except on Tuesdays, when Dr. Stallard painfully made her—she poured into firearms, martial arts, and reading. She had studied the outside world so much through books and movies by this point that sometimes it felt like she’d already been there, even though she hadn’t.

To see it one day, she’d have to graduate to fieldwork. Her training with firearms, augmented by her enhanced eyesight and reflexes, would be the only realistic way to get there. But fieldwork meant killing, like Bronn had to do. Bad people, but still.

“Maybe tomorrow you can show me,” Bronn said. “I can see if I have any more tips for you. Or, who knows, maybe you have tips for me by now.”

He was only being kind, of course; Bronn and all of Class B were incredible shots, far better than Sara or any of the other Class C members, and Bronn had the highest marksmanship scores of all.

“I’d like that,” she said. “I could use a form check.” She missed having him around, now that he was on fieldwork more than half the time. Alongside Damien and Clare, he was one of the warmest of her peers, almost like an uncle. According to facility lore, he’d been the first of the subjects to name himself, and now they all had names. Real human names.

Dr. Stallard refused to use them and forbade other facility employees from doing so either, but some of them did in secret, including Emmett, one of the lead researchers. Michelle, who oversaw the subjects’ personal care, also quietly used their self-chosen names if pushed enough. But now Sara saw Bronn less often, and each time he returned from the field he was quieter than before. What hope was there if even Bronn was sad?

“You know what helps with bad moods?” Bronn asked. “Walking.”

He did it all the time, but it always disarmed her how easily he could read her like that. Realizing her gaze had drifted down again, she looked back up. “Walking?”

“Yeah, walking. Our ghosts don’t like walks at all, so when you go for a long one, they leave you alone. Most of the time, at least.”

“Yo, Bronn!” Jolgen shouted. “Let’s go. Ops in twenty.”

Bronn nodded over his shoulder, then turned back to Sara and Damien. “I’ve got to hit the showers and go to an operation planning session. But Sara, let’s sync up tomorrow at the firing range. Oh-eight-hundred.”



Damien screamed. Not just from the splitting pain in his skull, but also from the expansion of awareness. Unnatural, terrifying, boundless. He thrashed against his restraints.

“Relax D4, these readings are incredible,” Dr. Stallard said. “Only a bit further.”

“We’re at risk here,” Emmett said, watching the metrics.

“Just a bit further,” Dr. Stallard said, more forcefully. “Raise it by 5 percent.”

Emmett frowned and hesitated, glanced at Damien, then typed something into the terminal.

Everything intensified. The pain crossed into something monstrous. Damien’s throat grew hoarse from his screams, and seconds passed like minutes. Not figuratively, but literally. If not for the distracting agony, he would have been able to think a full paragraph between each second. Time passed. Then more. His screams turned to sobs as he shook uncontrollably. Why won’t it end? Please, end!

“Thane!” Emmett shouted, calling Dr. Stallard by his first name as he sometimes did.

“Okay, that’s enough,” Dr. Stallard said. “You’ve performed wonderfully today, D4. Tell me what you felt.”

As Damien’s perception normalized, Emmett stood up from his chair and came over to unstrap him. Another researcher unplugged the computer from the back of his head and removed the probes from his temples and chest.

Damien gasped for air as beads of sweat dripped down his face. As soon as one of his trembling hands was free, he reached for the cup of water on the table next to him and gulped it down. He’d spend the rest of the day in bed, nursing the headache. Probably the next day, too. “It felt like pain,” he said eventually.

“I know, but what else?” Dr. Stallard asked, eyes wide. “Tell me about the other aspects.” Dr. Stallard only ever got excited with Damien now. Even Fallon’s new telekinetic records barely interested him anymore.

“I became the room,” Damien said. “No, it was more than that. Like I was in space. I didn’t feel inside my head anymore. And my cognition increased.”

“Quantify it, like I’ve taught you. Sped up by how much this time?”

“At least five times faster than baseline.”

Dr. Stallard glanced over at Emmett. “I think this is the furthest we’ve gotten, and he bumped into our limiters. These metrics look even better than D3’s peak.”

And he’s dead now, Damien thought. Rudolph. My friend.

Dr. Stallard regarded Damien for a moment. Seeming to notice something, he took off his augmented glasses, then came over himself. He set his hand on Damien’s shoulder, which he’d never done before. “You did well today. We can skip next week so you can fully recover. And if there’s something special that I can get for you, please let me know. I understand these tests are hard, but I can’t begin to tell you how proud I am of you, Damien.”







Chapter 7





Eight Years Earlier, Continued


With drones and the overall mechanization of warfare, I am skeptical of how impactful the subjects can be in the field over time. For assassinations, however, there is probably nothing better.

–TS log 11261, excerpt

Fallon’s pulse quickened as their driver took them through the gates of the estate. Assassinations were her favorite missions, and this would be her third.

War zones were gross and chaotic, and usually sandy. Assassinations were more personal. More focused. More exquisite. There was just one heart to stop, rather than a mess of faceless people and drones to kill. And it was often a heart worth stopping, for everyone’s sake.

Wearing a violet evening dress and uncomfortably high heels, she stepped from the car into the warm night air with Miguel at her side. In front of her stood a villa, or more like a palace as far as she was concerned, in Mexico.

Where in Mexico? She’d been told earlier, but she forgot, since her job was very simple: follow Miguel around, pose as his date, then subtly stop the heart of cartel boss Diego Torres at his own birthday party.

The most unbelievable part was that someone like her would supposedly date Miguel, a man in his forties. More than twice her age. He wasn’t ugly, but rather just so plain. And nervous, which was unattractive. She assumed the fictional implication was that it was a money-focused type of relationship. But she had to act the part well enough, so she pretended he was Jax instead. Jax was taller, hotter, and always so confident, even around her.

Still, Miguel was admittedly key in this. As an undercover agent of the US Drug Enforcement Administration, he’d buried himself deep into Diego Torres’s cartel over the past few years. Tonight was Torres’s birthday party, with Miguel and his “plus one” invited to attend. A swanky criminal shindig. There would even be some Mexican politicians here, supposedly.

Several guards stood vigilant at the gate they’d already come through, and more ran security checks here at the mansion’s entrance. A small line of well-dressed people went through, each being searched as they did. Torres took his safety seriously.

“Remember, don’t speak unless spoken to,” Miguel said. Sweat oozed from his pores, which wasn’t a good look on him. Fallon could speak Spanish but not like a local, and she didn’t really know much about this place. Her fake identity accounted for that.

“We went over this,” she said. “I don’t need reminders. Focus on yourself. Wait, are my eyes still okay?” She tilted her face toward him with her eyes wide open, and he scrutinized them in return.

“Still the same,” he said.

Fallon nodded and took a deep breath. The contacts she wore were her only concern. They visually rounded her pupils to look human, but they couldn’t fully hide her eyes’ reflective sheen, and this was a night party. Her instructions had been to try to look down whenever she found herself outside in the dark. Fallon had found it surprisingly hard to do. She naturally preferred looking people straight in the eyes.

“Why aren’t there any security drones?” she asked. “Just guards?”

“Because Torres doesn’t trust them. He fears that governments put backdoors in them, and that they’ll be used to spy on him.” Miguel shrugged. “And he’s right.”

“Purse, please,” a guard said in Spanish when Fallon reached the front doors. She handed it over, and he gave it to the man to his left, who searched through it and scanned it with a sensor. Smiling, she held her arms out to her sides, and the first man patted her down and ran a scanner over her body.

She started forward, but his hand stopped her. “Mouth open,” he said.

Fallon narrowed her eyes, then regained her composure, smirked, and opened her jaw. He shined in a small pocket flashlight and looked around, then nodded. “Go ahead, miss.”

She took back her purse and walked in. “Paranoid much?” she whispered to Miguel once they were out of earshot.

“Not paranoid enough, apparently,” he whispered back with a nervous smile. He took her hand, and she resumed pretending he was Jax.

For the first hour, Torres didn’t even show up, and Fallon grew bored. She was supposed to keep a low profile and not talk much, but there were only so many variations she could perform of standing next to someone and smiling. Besides, the anticipation was killing her.

Miguel brought her a fancy-looking orange drink from the bar for appearances’ sake, but she only took a few sips. Though she was biologically resilient against alcohol and other poisons at low doses, she didn’t like the taste much anyway, and she needed to stay sharp.

It was a beautiful hall to look at, though. Tall, vaulted ceilings, gorgeous chandeliers, and massive windows opening onto the breezy nighttime ocean. Or the gulf. Or the . . . Sea of Cortez? It didn’t matter. Fallon used the time to note where the guards were—and there were a lot of them—to map out various exit strategies in case things went wrong.

At last, Torres appeared on the mezzanine with a middle-aged woman—his wife?—and a few men. “Ah, my friends,” he said in Spanish, while dozens of people halted their conversations and clapped. “I am sorry to have kept you waiting.” He and his party descended the stairs into the main hall, and he began shaking multiple hands.

What a loser. He was in his fifties, heavyset, and two or three inches shorter than her. With her heels on, she towered over him as though he were a piglet. She had seen his pictures, but in person, he looked both older and smaller. This guy runs the biggest cartel in Mexico? Fallon had always imagined cartel leaders being cooler looking, like aged versions of Jax or Santiago. But in practice, they tended to be slumpy.

She didn’t act yet. It would be too suspicious for him to drop dead here. She waited another painful hour and a half, through various speeches. Miguel would whisper to her some useless context from time to time as though she would care. “His third lieutenant,” he’d say as a man gave a suck-up speech to the party about Torres. Or “that guy over there is this state’s governor’s closest aid.”

Then people danced, while Torres himself lingered on the side, surrounded by men talking to him in a never-ending series of small meetings. There were several bodyguards who kept people away from Torres, even at his own invite-only party, unless they were important enough to get through.

Eventually, Torres had a few drinks in him and had smoked a cigar. He had been mingling for a while. The death would be more plausible now.

There were two main ways to do this: choking or heart attack. She and Maria could both squeeze someone’s throat shut. It wasn’t rocket science. The key was to not overdo it; just enough to close the windpipe or carotid arteries, preferably the arteries, and watch the person choke out. The victim would die with minimal external marks.

The better method was to cause a heart attack, which Maria couldn’t reliably do yet, and thus why Fallon had been chosen for this mission. A telekineticist could reach her foci through objects like a ghost, but it was hard to grip what you couldn’t see. It required anatomical study and extreme precision—and practice on lab animals, which Dr. Stallard supplied.

Maria had been too squeamish to experiment on them often enough. Her loss. Again, the key was to squeeze lightly. A crushed heart would look weird in an autopsy, but a heart that was merely held firm long enough to stop beating would look like a natural death. No traces of poison. No external wounds. Just a chubby man in his fifties dying from too many drinks and cigars, burdened by the stress of running his dark empire.

“I’m getting tired, Miguel,” she said. Their code phrase to get ready. He nodded.

Fallon eyed Torres. Due to the precision required, this was hard to do without any hand motions, but she kept her hands still to look normal for the cameras anyway, since the cartel would inevitably scrutinize every second of footage in the coming days. From about fifty feet away, she concentrated on his chest and slipped one of her foci into it, like a long, ghostly, invisible arm reaching across the room.

A telekinetic focus couldn’t feel details as well as nerves on her skin could, but it could sense pressure due to the conservation of momentum, and thus it could feel out for a heartbeat. She kept her touch as light as possible until she was sure she’d positioned her grip properly, and then she squeezed.

Torres gasped and clutched his chest, and multiple men around him shouted. His knees buckled, and two men caught him and laid him down on the floor as he spasmed. Fallon moved her grip on his heart, careful not to accidentally rip it out of his ribcage as his torso moved down to the floor, while still preventing it from beating.

Multiple partygoers screamed or mumbled to each other. Everyone was looking that way now, toward the commotion. Fallon put her hand to her mouth in mock horror for the cameras. Torres’s wife—or the woman who was plausibly his wife—shrieked and dashed to him, losing one of her shoes in the process.

A wave of euphoria rushed over Fallon, and she bit her lip to avoid smiling. This man thought he was so powerful, but now he experienced what real power was. She was a god in this room, capable of choosing who lived and who died without them knowing who—if anyone—was behind it. Who needed drinks when you could get a rush like this?

She didn’t even plant her bracer, since she needed to feel the heart’s pushback to maximize her precision. Whenever she moved something heavy or quickly with a focus, she had to plant one of her bracers into the ground or another stable foundation so that she could transfer the reactive momentum to the earth rather than to herself. But for something as small as a heart, she let what little momentum it had push back on her so that she could sense it properly. Each pulse felt like a tiny little beg from this dying man, and she let herself feel it all.

But then, a tinge of guilt. Bronn had spoken to her multiple times about her aggression, about enjoying this type of thing too much, just like he had done for multiple men in Class B. Yet here was that enjoyment again, blossoming from her anyway. But if not for this pig of a man, then for whom? Torres’s cartel had beheaded thousands of people over the years. She was a national hero for this.

It wasn’t like she went around killing kids or kicking puppies. Sure, maybe she’d metaphorically kicked a kid now and then in her younger years, but if anything, getting kicked probably built character. And after Bronn’s rants following a couple of those instances, she’d worked on controlling herself better.

That type of thing was wrong, she admitted. But this was right. She let herself revel in it. It was important to enjoy one’s work. This was the right thing to do, and she wouldn’t pretend otherwise. Multiple people huddled around Torres, trying to help him, and his spasms ceased.

His heart stopped trying to push back on her grip. All was still. She held on for a few more seconds to be sure, then released it. Torres was dead, without a scratch on him or poison to be found within him, in a place where no weapons could enter and no strangers could get close. Goodbye, Diego.

She locked eyes with Miguel to signal it was done. Rather than relief on his face, she was amused to see that he looked even more nervous than before.







Chapter 8



It had been four days since the newsroom incident, and the terrorist was now widely being called the “Jade-Eyed Witch” or often just “Jade” for short. A popular influencer had coined it on day one, and the name had stuck.

No trace of her had been found after she vanished underground, despite extensive camera sweeps combined with AI pattern recognition. Asim had used his surveillance signing key more extensively than ever to help his team run searches, and the few other officials out there with similar rare access had likely done the same.

Jade must’ve planned it in advance, Asim figured. With her abilities, she could slip into any number of sewer, utility, or subway tunnels once she was below ground.

At least they had conclusively linked Jade to the rest stop murder. Her combat boot prints in the newsroom blood were an exact match for the type and size of the unaccounted-for boot prints found in blood at the rest stop. That night’s events had come somewhat into focus, though her motives remained unclear, and they still didn’t know the fate of her captives.

And just now, Asim’s team had acquired the newsroom elevator footage he’d been waiting days for, delayed by red tape. Several of them gathered in their case conference room at ACI headquarters.

“Okay, here’s the first recording, sir. Unlike the lobby camera, the elevator footage has audio.”

Ava tapped her tablet screen, and the room’s television showed the scene. The receptionist hostage, a man in his twenties, stepped into the elevator first, tense and trembling. Jade followed, pistol down at her side, and kept her eyes looking out the open elevator doors until they closed.

“Which floor is the live newsroom?” Jade asked.

“That’s, um, twenty-three.”

“Take me there. You’re not lying, are you?” She shifted her gaze from the doors to his eyes.

“No, I swear,” he said quickly. “That’s where they broadcast from.”

She lingered on his face for a few uncomfortable seconds, then turned back toward the doors. He swiped his trembling hand for the biometrics security check and pressed floor twenty-three. They rode up in silence, the receptionist fidgeting and Jade statue-still.

Asim couldn’t help but notice how infrequently the woman blinked. He’d need to observe another person with those strange eyes to determine if it was biological or psychological. Some psychopaths blinked less often than neurotypical people, but many animals also blinked infrequently due to biological differences. None of this was as clear-cut as fiction tended to portray.

The elevator doors opened, and Jade glanced both ways before stepping out. “Tell them I went to floor fifteen,” she said as she walked away.

According to reports, the receptionist hadn’t followed that order. While they’d traveled up in the elevator, a female receptionist who’d remained in the lobby had called the police, and when this male receptionist got back down there, he told them that the attacker had gone to floor twenty-three.

Ava played the second recording, capturing the ride down. The timestamp showed it was shorter than the first.

The anchorman, hands clasped behind his head, stepped into the elevator. Jade followed, pistol aimed at his back. Her body language was more tense this time, and she’d already removed her overcoat. Both she and the anchorman left bloody footprints behind as they entered. Jade glanced up, straight into the elevator camera, and made a slight gripping motion with her free hand. The recording ended.

“She crushed that camera,” Ava said. “Did you get what you hoped for, sir?”

“Not as much as I hoped, but as much as I expected.” Asim got up and strolled toward the window, gazing out to think as members of the team murmured to each other at the conference table.

A few minutes later, he turned back, and the team went quiet to listen. “She’s calm despite other potential signs of psychosis. No unnecessary demonstrations of force. She’s comfortable around both of those larger men physically, as though they’re no threat even up close, going as far as to turn her back on that receptionist when stepping out of the elevator. She doesn’t use her pistol other than as a prop, likely because she knows that her powers are unclear to them but that they view a gun as dangerous, which is a sign of intelligence on her part. She gets more tense when multiple people are around, probably because there are more possible angles of attack. From what I’ve heard about operatives like her in the field, their reflexes are faster than ours. So, in a complex setting, she’s analyzing a lot of things at once.”

Brooks raised his hand as though he were still in school, then spoke. “That point where she stared at the receptionist for a while after he told her the newsroom floor number—do you think she was intimidating him into not lying or trying to read if he was lying, Colonel?”

Good question, Asim thought. “Reading, I think. Maybe reading whether she’d already intimidated him enough to tell the truth, or any other signs of lies. She didn’t step closer, make a threat, or point the gun at him, which would help if her primary goal was to intimidate.”

Flanagan smiled at Brooks, and Ava watched her tablet take notes.

Asim’s phone buzzed—a call from his boss’s boss. Major General Ashley Scholl, the silver-haired head of all Army Intelligence and Security Command, or INSCOM for short.

“Yes, ma’am?” Asim answered, injecting as much respect as possible into his tone. His chest tightened.

“We need a private word, Colonel. My office at thirteen hundred hours. I’ll have Brigadier General Davis here with me as well.”

“Yes, ma’am,” Asim said, but the general had already hung up. Though he’d briefed the woman multiple times on behalf of Davis over the years and knew her reasonably well, she’d never called him directly before. He shared a glance with Flanagan and ran a hand through his hair. “Shit.”



As he headed to the top floor of the INSCOM office complex at Fort Belvoir, having flown in with Ava from Fort Meade to make it in time, Asim ran through the case in his mind.

Two weeks had passed since the New Jersey rest stop incident, and four days since the New York newsroom attack. Although Asim still had to keep tabs on ACI’s other active cases as deputy commander, this one consumed most of his personal time. Supernatural powers—or whatever the hell this was—apparently had that effect. Yet no matter how many people he assigned to the case, progress was slow. They were left with multiple dead ends.

Once Jade struck the newsroom, turning the case into a domestic terrorism investigation, the FBI took the lead role and assigned hundreds of agents and analysts to it across multiple field offices, while ACI supported it with parallel efforts and an emphasis on the military side of things. Half a dozen other agencies circled the case as well.

Leaving Ava in the waiting area, absorbed in her tablet, Asim reached Scholl’s curly-haired young secretary. She gave him a single expectant nod and gestured for him to proceed. Asim smiled in return, crossed to the major general’s door, and knocked.

“Come in.” Scholl’s voice.

Asim entered the spacious top-floor office suite. “Ma’am, Colonel Rahal reporting as ordered,” he said with a crisp salute.

Scholl sat at her elaborate desk. An older civilian man with salt-and-pepper hair and a trim beard leaned back comfortably in one of the padded guest chairs. He had a vest over a button-up shirt, giving off the vibe of a stern professor. Davis sat in another guest chair, which was a rare sight.

“At ease, Colonel. This is Dr. Thane Stallard,” Scholl said, gesturing toward the older man. “We’re convening an interagency discussion on your terrorist case. Please sit.”

Stallard looked up and nodded to Asim, not bothering to stand or offer any greeting. A power hierarchy existed here, and Asim was on the wrong side of it. It’d been ages since he’d been in a position like this.

He surveyed all three people, nodded to Davis, walked over and respectfully shook Stallard’s hand, then took a seat in one of Scholl’s other padded chairs. “Of course, ma’am. How may I be of service?” He directed his question to Scholl.

She nodded toward Stallard.

“Good afternoon, Colonel,” Stallard said. “I’ve come to understand that you’re the one spearheading the DoD’s portion of the investigation into this rogue operative, who’s unfortunately associated with my funding line. I’ve submitted two requests. First, I need the bodies of the three green-eyed operatives found at the rest stop prepared for my group to come and collect tonight, as they are our property. Any evidence or material you’ve gathered on them as well. Second, I require an intel-sharing agreement on your case. In return, I’m willing to assist with your investigation on a limited basis.”

Such an agreement leaned heavily in Stallard’s favor, and he spoke as though it were already settled, even though he was a civilian. Asim glanced at Davis again. The brigadier general sat stiffly in his chair, almost deferential to Stallard. This wasn’t a request. The powers in motion here went very high.

Asim and Davis, as a close junior/senior duo for several years now, knew how to quietly signal to each other, and Davis made himself clear. The one-star brigadier general who ran ACI was clearly deferential to Stallard, but it was particularly odd that even Scholl, a two-star major general who ran all of INSCOM, showed the same deference.

“Of course,” Asim said. “I’m sorry to hear that your organization has been disrupted. May I ask what program you’re involved with?”

“What little I can say for someone of your security clearance type,” Stallard said in a patronizing tone, “is that it falls under the Department of Defense; a funding line overseen personally by General Edmond Price.”

Well, Asim thought. That explains things. General Price wasn’t just a four-star general—he was the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The second-highest-ranking officer in the entire United States Armed Forces across all branches. He worked in the Pentagon.

Regarding Stallard’s security comment, Asim had top-secret clearance, and then some. But at the highest levels of clearance, they segmented intelligence into narrow categories. Extremely sensitive intel was only shared with individuals on a need-to-know basis, regardless of how high their clearance level was. As part of his counterintelligence work, Asim had uniquely high access to domestic cameras and other forms of surveillance, but he had little access to various military research programs. Stallard likely had the opposite clearance, with more research access and less surveillance access. Clearly, he had more pull at the very top than Asim or even Asim’s bosses.

“Along with the FBI, we’ve gathered significant info, but tangible progress is slow,” Asim said. “There are potentially two captives involved, in addition to potential future victims if she strikes again. She may have sensitive data as well, which is ACI’s job to contain. Anything you can share with us would be helpful, and we’d be happy to share what we have with you. Are you in charge of the Stolguard Biological Research Facility?”

“I want your full case dataset,” Stallard said flatly. “Everything you have gotten thus far, and everything the FBI has shared with you. She’s dangerous, and if she were to escape the country and join an enemy power, it would be disastrous for US biological superiority. They could reverse-engineer some of her details.”

“Her telekinesis?”

“Perhaps. In time. But outside of this room, we wouldn’t confirm such absurd abilities even exist,” Stallard said.

Asim scratched the back of his head. “One of our coroners found GPS tracking chips deep in their necks. They weren’t operational, but our tech team says the chips are designed to operate indefinitely from small amounts of energy they draw from a living host. Does the rogue operative have one too? Still working, perhaps?”

Stallard sighed. “If my team could currently track her, we wouldn’t be having this conversation, would we, Colonel?”

Davis gestured with his right hand reassuringly toward Stallard, likely to break the tension. “All airports and border stations are on alert. Canada and Mexico are cooperating. Without any ID, and with so many eyes watching, it would be next to impossible for her to travel through any formal means.”

Stallard nodded.

“What can you tell me about her?” Asim asked. He noted that Stallard had avoided his earlier question about the Stolguard facility. Normally Scholl would have taken a moment to cut down someone who spoke so curtly in her office, but she just watched curiously.

“Roughly what you’ve seen,” Stallard said. “Extremely dangerous. She can manipulate multiple objects lethally. Processes visual information and reacts faster than unaltered humans. Unique eyesight in terms of range and light requirements. Hearing and smell at the upper human limit. Heals faster and more completely. Resistant to poisons and diseases. We’d be disheartened but satisfied if she were to be deleted in the field and the body returned to us.”

“How can she be stopped?” Asim asked.

“By overwhelming her, or catching her unaware. She can be downed by shots to her head or vital organs, but she can block such shots with her mind. Poison can work, though only at a triple dose or more. If somehow captured alive, obscure her vision and sedate her. Much of her telekinesis relies on sight. She exceeds our other subjects, though I will not go into further detail. And all of this is confidential, of course.”

“What about personality? Or a name?”

“Unhinged, clearly. But well-trained. We don’t assign names. They’re not citizens, because their abilities aren’t supposed to exist.” He clasped his hands together and leaned forward. “This isn’t complicated, Colonel. Just find her. And give us your intel so we can help narrow the search.”

“Since it has been complicating our efforts, may I ask if your group is responsible for the bot noise throughout the edge realms about this case?” Asim asked, keeping his tone conversational. “Drowning out the details she may have posted on the socials, perhaps for security reasons?”

Stallard stared at him, then leaned back. “I believe I’ve answered enough of your questions to help with your case.”

Asim gripped his armrest but remained visibly calm. He was close enough with Davis to be blunt in front of him, but not Scholl. “Understood, Doctor. Besides handing over the bodies, how can I assist you?”

“Location research. Current leads. Everything you have and will continue to acquire so that we may find and neutralize the danger she represents to society and national security.”

That meant their entire case database over the prior two weeks. Stallard had phrased it nicely, but what he meant was that he wanted everything, in exchange for the off-the-record scraps of context he’d given here. Asim glanced at Davis, and Davis just gave a tiny nod, indicating this indeed came from a higher power. General Price.

“Of course,” Asim said. Stallard had him cornered.

Someone knocked on Scholl’s door.

“Yes, come in?” Scholl sounded surprised. Getting past her secretary in the middle of this type of meeting was next to impossible.

Ava opened the door, visibly excited. Fuck. Ava being excited was bad. That meant new intel. Enough to interrupt even this group.

Asim glared at her and gave one small head shake. No, he implied. Don’t share it here. He hoped she got the message. If anyone could read him, it was Ava. Hopefully. He’d picked her for a reason.

“Yes?” Scholl asked, drawing out the word, indicating her annoyance.

“Sorry, ma’am,” Ava said. She pointed toward herself. “I’m Special Agent Zhou, part of Colonel Rahal’s domestic field investigations team. We received new . . . elevator video that he’d flagged as urgent. I wanted to let him know.”

Brilliant, Asim thought. That was old news now. She had something new but wasn’t sharing it. This woman needs a raise.

“You came in here for that, Agent?” Scholl asked. “Surely it can wait.”

“I’m sorry, ma’am,” she said. “It’s just that the colonel instructed me to intervene in his meetings if he lists something as urgent, which this was. But you’re right, I should have applied discretion in this context.” She nodded politely and turned to go.

Asim gave her a nod.

Ava paused at the door and glanced back toward them. “Just one question, ma’am, sirs. Is there alien technology involved?”

Davis cleared his throat, and the office went silent. Asim mentally pulled back almost everything he’d just thought. This idiot. What the fuck. Mentioning aliens in front of both of his bosses?

“No,” Stallard said after an uncomfortable moment. “It’s humanity’s own natural evolution.”

Scholl stared at Ava with raised eyebrows. Why are you still here? the expression seemed to imply.

“Oh. Well, that’s good, sir,” Ava said.

“Thank you, Agent Zhou,” Asim cut in. “I’ll review the elevator footage once I’m back with the case team. I did rank it as urgent, so I appreciate you flagging it.”

She smiled and nodded. “Sorry, sir. This situation just seems so unusual.” She raised her hand and performed a “zipped shut” motion across her lips, then left. Scholl’s gaze lingered at the closed door, and she still had one thin eyebrow raised. Ava was lucky she was a civilian agent.

“My proposal,” Stallard initiated after a too-quiet pause in the office, “is straightforward. I’ll provide intel on a need-to-know basis, as I have here, and in return you will provide the bodies and case details, including ones from your joint task force work.”

“Can you tell me the context for the group of operatives that were found dead at the rest stop?” Asim asked. “Particularly, that younger one. African American. He didn’t seem to be a combatant, and my forensics team documented unidentified neural implants in him.”

“I’m afraid that their details will need to remain classified, and my team will need to take possession of that documentation,” Stallard said. “Suffice to say, our rogue subject performed the killings. They were soldiers doing their jobs, and as you pointed out, one was a noncombatant whom she killed anyway.”

“We found two sets of footprints unaccounted for at the scene,” Asim pressed. “One in combat boots, which we now know were hers thanks to her prints in the newsroom SWAT team’s blood. A second was barefoot, likely a captive. Can you tell us anything about that one?”

Stallard furrowed his brow. “No,” he said after some time.

“Thank you, Doctor,” Asim said. “I would be happy to provide intel as we receive it.” But not all of it, either, he thought. Because fuck you.



“What’s the real update?” Asim asked as he returned to the waiting area.

“I’m sorry about the alien question, sir,” Ava said. “I knew you wouldn’t ask it, and someone had to at that level. It’s the most important question of our day.”

“What?” He pinched the bridge of his nose. “Never mind. How the hell did you get past Scholl’s secretary, and what’s the real update?”

“I thought the general might be criticizing you for not getting far enough in the case, and we’ve had a breakthrough. Her secretary used to be one of my running friends until she was transferred. I told her that the intel I had could literally change the course of that entire meeting.” Ava flipped around her tablet, showing the red-headed prostitute on the screen. “We’ve got the identity of the abducted sex worker, Jitters, sir. The bots are now 98 percent confident on the match. Her real name is Veronica Szal.”







Chapter 9



Over the past day, Asim had Flanagan’s analyst team dig up everything they could on twenty-five-year-old Veronica “Jitters” Szal.

It had taken so long to identify her because she frequently dyed her hair and changed other aspects of her appearance, throwing off pattern recognition algorithms in a district already plagued by poor camera density. On top of that, she’d been using privacy-oriented practices for years. Even with her full name, they’d found shockingly little about her.

Her partial transaction history suggested she lived in Brooklyn, where she’d been seen on camera weeks earlier. The record was sparse, though; she must have been paying in cash or some other private means most of the time. No driver’s license or known address, despite laws requiring landlords to ID tenants and report them for recordkeeping. And, concerningly, there were zero identifiable transactions in the two weeks since Jade had taken her at gunpoint.

Ava had also identified Veronica’s mother, who lived in a halfway house on Long Island and had multiple stints in rehab clinics for a drug addiction. Brooks subsequently went up there and learned two things: first, Veronica only visited a few times a year but gave her a substantial sum of money when she did; second, her mother confirmed Veronica’s public identity key, which she used for decentralized social apps and messaging throughout the edge realms. None of her profiles had been posted from in weeks.

Now, Asim was manually combing through Veronica’s incomplete transaction history from before her abduction and cross-referencing it with store data for all of those purchases, in case anything stood out that his subordinates and their bots might’ve missed. Mostly grocery trips, clothes, and beauty supplies. An unfathomable amount of hair dye for one person. Almost every color on the spectrum, and tons of makeup.

But then, a potential jackpot: a VR device, purchased eight months ago. It had been incorrectly categorized in the woman’s payment logs by the merchant as a sound system, possibly on purpose to avoid surveillance. The store’s back-end system listed it correctly, though. Assuming she’d used it, she would’ve entered her identity key into it. Many VR manufacturers quietly logged usage data for bug fixes, as well as for selling it to marketing firms and the government. He assigned Brooks to call the company and pursue that. If they were lucky, they might be able to trace her private VR activity.

Asim got a cup of coffee and a second cup with tea, then headed over to Ava’s cubicle. As she spun around in her chair, he wordlessly handed her the tea and glanced at all the little photos and ornaments decorating her desk and walls. There were a ton as always, but a few new empty spots.

“Thank you, sir.”

“Let’s think this through again,” he said. “Jade and four other operatives are traveling with two noncombatant captives, both bound with plasticuffs. The group was doing something that Stallard won’t discuss, even when limited to two generals and a colonel in a secure room. They’re getting unusual cover from General Price and other top brass. Jade kills all the other operatives and one captive, and presumably leaves with the second captive. But then she shows up in Brooklyn without that captive, kills some criminals, and takes Veronica as a new captive at gunpoint. Any of this make sense to you yet?”

Ava pulled her tablet from its charging pad and turned it on, speaking as she did. “Technically we can’t confirm Jade killed that one captive at the rest stop, sir. His body was positioned separately from the rest. It’s possible one of the other operatives killed him.”

“I know it’s possible, but what’s the logic? Why would they have him in custody, then kill him?”

“Maybe Jade had him in her custody, sir. Maybe she traveled with the two captives, and the operatives found her, and either they or she killed one captive, and she killed the other operatives, while one captive got away. It’s still a mess to me. I’ve provided the case team with my second round of simulations on this, with new probability rankings assigned to each of the scenarios. You’ve watched them, right?”

He hadn’t, though he’d read the summaries. He glanced again at the most prominent empty spot on her desk, finally remembering what had been there: a photo of Ava and her partner together on a mountaintop. She’d had it there for a couple of years.

“Alright,” he said. “Walk me through the updated sims.”

“Of course, sir.” She placed her tablet face-up on her desk and pulled a pair of augmented glasses from a drawer, synced them to her tablet, and handed them to him. “Load rest stop scenario one,” she said as soon as he put the glasses on.

Instantly, they became immersed in a digital representation of the rest stop crime scene. Unlike VR, augmented glasses let Asim still see his real surroundings, but layered on top of them was a holographic environment depicting the scenario. Various words and statistics annotated what he saw.

Ava tapped her tablet, and the scenario began moving around them. A realistic depiction of Jade slaughtered the operatives at the rest stop with her telekinesis, and one of the captives was inadvertently killed in the crossfire. Jade looked down at the body with an annoyed expression, searched it, then escaped into the forest with the barefoot captive—assumed to be a woman here—forcibly in her custody.

Ava rewound the scenario. “In that one, Jade’s assumed to have been traveling with them all in the van, then turned on them to take the captives for some reason.”

Asim gestured at the glasses he wore. “Aren’t you going to put yours on, too?”

Ava shook her head and tapped her temple. “I put it all up here, sir.” Her voice was nearly a whisper, and her expression softened.

“Right.” He always underestimated that ability, and she didn’t like drawing attention to it. “Let’s go through the rest of them.”

For the next hour, they watched her fourteen scenarios in descending order of probability. In some scenarios, Jade had traveled with the operatives and attacked them first, turning on them for some reason. In others, they initiated the attack, trying to get a jump on her but finding themselves outmatched. In some, Jade started at the rest stop with the captives in her custody, and the operatives came with a failed attempt to kill her and recover them.

Other scenarios assumed she was after the captives to interrogate them, and emerged from the forest to attack the van while the operatives and their captives had stopped for a break. In one scenario, after defeating the operatives, she purposely killed the first captive by telekinetically snapping his neck to scare the other one into talking, then left with her.

Each scenario concluded with the physical evidence exactly as they found it—the position of the bodies, the guns, the bullets, the destroyed van, the two sets of torn plasticuffs, and the two sets of footprints through the blood. That made them all technically possible. But as they went through the scenario list, the more implausible the actions of the participants became, such as doing things against their own self-interest or that didn’t fit their outward emotional state. Minimizing unlikely assumptions was how Ava and her bots had assigned probabilities, though there were several scenarios in the middle with near-identical likelihoods.

After the last one, Asim leaned his head forward and closed his eyes to think for a moment, pinching the bridge of his nose, trying to imagine what they were missing. His phone buzzed, and Ava’s tablet did too.

After fishing his phone out of his pocket, Asim read a message from Brooks: Good news, Colonel. I’ve got logs from the VR company. This device was used two days ago, and four times total since Veronica’s disappearance.



Asim was drunk at ten at night, in his apartment, alone. A man needed a way to unwind after a day like this. Plus, drinking helped him work through cases in a different mindset. Or so he liked to think. He played through each of Ava’s scenarios again, looking for new angles. He could pause, rotate, or customize each scenario as needed, as long as the outcome matched the evidence.

You kknow, you really do amazing fucking work. I’m going to makesure you get a raise, he texted Ava.

Thank you, she replied. Have you imbibed this evening, sir?

Yes, but still. I thought of itwhile sober, so it’s a legitimate thought. That’s the rule. He frowned as he looked back and saw his typos.

May we discuss this tomorrow, sir?

He marked her message with a thumbs-up emoji. She’d go on forever about aliens at work but suddenly be all quiet in texts. He still didn’t understand her. Maybe he never would.

Asim returned to the case. A proper alcoholic with experience like he’d acquired could still function on the poison, albeit in a different way. Precise button taps and keeping his thoughts to himself were admittedly not his strengths right now, but he was still himself where it mattered.

The prostitute’s VR device data logs, which he’d reviewed via their government backdoor, were promising—they showed that the device had been used a handful of times in the edge realms since she’d been last seen. An online username and her public identity key were tied to it: GlitterJitters. Using the backdoor, Asim had been combing through as many details of her VR history as possible, despite her history being set to private mode.

However, the digital address logs were scrambled. She’d used a data scrambler, masking her physical access location. They had an alert set up to notify them the next time the device went live.

Thinking about it made him want to go into virtual reality himself, so he went to his VR room and slipped in. The best part about a fake beach was that you didn’t have to worry about drowning or sunburn, even when drunk.

An hour later, floating in the crystal-blue water, he got a notification from Brooks. Asim swiped into the sky, changing it to his phone background.

Veronica’s VR device just went active again! Sending you the details now, Colonel, the message read.

His phone rang moments later. It was Ava. He swiped up and answered.

“You saw?” he asked.

“Of course, sir. Brooks is my minion. Should we move forward with the plan in your, um, current state, sir? Or should I go in your place?”

Asim took a deep breath and focused. No. The best part about drinking frequently was that you could force yourself to be sober enough if necessary, thanks to experience. Bad experience, but still. “It’s been an hour. I’m fine now. Sorry. We’ll stick with the existing plan. I’ll report back in a bit.”

“Yes, sir.” She sounded relieved.

After ending the call, he searched for GlitterJitters in his console with his government backdoor enabled to bypass her device’s privacy settings, and found her in Opera, Space Background, Moderate Population Density, Room 3. It required either a high reputation score or a high fee to enter, much like Asim’s favorite beach spot, to keep out spammers and trolls that would otherwise ruin any fine place in the edge realms.

Guess I’m going to the opera tonight. He pulled up his avatar menu and changed from beachwear to evening wear. He hated wearing formal attire in real life but had almost unlimited suit options in VR. He went with the gray-and-black combination for this one. Black dress shirt, no tie, with a gray Armani suit over it. Hair settings: slicked back for the occasion. Beard: short and well-trimmed.

With his complexion and outfit together, he had that modern Persian Gulf prince oil baron look, which was the vibe he was aiming for given the setting. Tall, dark, and handsome, he liked to think. Tiny streaks of premature gray at his temples. Seasoned.

He stepped into the opera.

Beauty filled every inch of the room, and he felt a moment of embarrassment for not branching out more. He spent too much time at the same beach and not enough time exploring places like this. It reached six stories high, consisting of multiple balcony levels, with intricate black-and-gold seats, and the ceiling dazzled with lights and lasers that ebbed and flowed in sync with the singer’s voice. But the stage was next-level awe-inspiring. Behind the singer, enormous floor-to-ceiling windows looked out into space, with Saturn close by.

To find GlitterJitters, he switched on his device’s information mode and scanned the room. And there she was. A woman sitting on the third-floor balcony, front row, off to the right side of the stage. He zoomed in. Wavy, ruby-red hair, light skin, voluptuous figure, wearing a sleek black dress. Gorgeous.

People’s avatars could look like anything, subject to certain rules for each type of room. But hers matched the pictures he had on file of Veronica Szal, albeit a bit more polished. Hair a little more voluminous and in perfect place, complexion and makeup more flawless than would be achievable in real life, but it was her.

Nobody sat next to her, on either side. The term “Moderate Population Density” in this room’s title meant that enough people were able to attend it and make it into a shared social experience, but it wouldn’t be so crowded that every seat would be full. Unlike a real opera house, they could expand the number of rooms as needed.

He cracked his neck and focused. The alcohol’s buzz lingered a bit, and the scent of champagne diffused throughout the opera wasn’t helping, but he was mostly back to his right frame of mind. He was Colonel Rahal, not drunk Asim. Let’s go have a chat.

He climbed the stairs, strode over to her row, and smiled. “Mind if I sit here?”

“There are plenty of other seats,” GlitterJitters said in a colder voice than he expected. She didn’t bother to look up, just kept staring at the stage.

“Ah, but these seats are in my favorite spot. I come here often. I won’t be a burden, miss, I promise.”

She glanced up at him for a moment, then back toward the stage again.

He took that as a sign of acceptance, whether she meant it that way or not, and lowered himself into the chair next to her. She sat with one leg crossed over the other, wearing strappy silver heels that matched her silver jewelry, and was intensely focused on the performance. Unblinking.

“You come here often, Veronica?” he asked.

Her body tensed, and she slowly turned to look at him.

The expression on her face hardened—and she still hadn’t blinked. A chill ran up his spine.

“I’m . . . not talking to Veronica, am I?” Asim asked. “You’re using her device, and her avatar.”

She studied his face, glanced down at his attire, then up at his face again. Finally, she blinked. She turned away and reached out her hand, swiping in front of her with a finger on a menu only she could see. She was about to disengage and leave the room. Veronica was likely dead, then. Her digital avatar stolen by her killer.

“Jade,” he said. “Why leave? Tell me what you tried to say in the newsroom. You wanted to get something out there, right?”

Her finger paused, and she turned to look back at him with narrowed eyes. “Who are you?”

“I’m someone who wants to know what’s going on.”

“That’s not an answer.”

“Consider me a detective. My name’s Asim.”

“You’re probably working for Stallard.”

“No. But I know you used to.”

She lowered her hand from the menu, and the corners of her lips curled up into a smile that didn’t reach her eyes.

“What I warned about is true,” she said. “The Stolguard facility is making mutants. Mostly for military strikes and assassinations, including illegal domestic ones. But despite me naming them on air, nothing’s been done. And inside, Stallard crafts a dark god.”

Okay, he thought. “What’s that supposed to mean?”

“A blend of human and machine, and malicious. It’s been disrupted for now, but will re-emerge.” She shook her head. “It’ll be catastrophic if it does. Worse than you can imagine.”

“Why’d you kill so many cops at NewsCon?”

Her jaw tightened. “They shot at me. Arrived too fast.”

“They were trying to save lives. You publicly threatened civilian hostages.”

“To warn of what’s coming.”

“Some more emails and social posts could have done that, don’t you think?”

“They were ignored. Drowned out. I had to show people directly.”

“So, is Veronica dead, too? And that other captive you had?”

“I still think you work for Stallard. Why should I tell you anything you could use to track me?”

He flipped his right hand over, palm upward for emphasis. “I just want to help people. That’s the truth.”

Her eyes lingered on him. Unblinking. Thinking. “I don’t kill for sport,” she said. “And your so-called Veronica doesn’t need your help anymore.”

“That’s not an answer to my question,” Asim said.

“I don’t owe you answers, since you’ll just use them against me. You’re probably trying to trace my location as we speak. I’ve told you of the real threat.”

“The dark god?”

She nodded, looking grim.

“What are you going to do next?” he asked.

Jade scoffed. “What are you going to do next?” she asked. “The fact that none of you are doing anything is why I have to do what comes next.”

She swiped and logged off, disappearing from her seat.







Chapter 10





Six Years Earlier


So many people of this generation have become distracted by AI, as if under a spell. Yet, carbon is inherently a denser substrate for information processing than silicon. Augmenting what nature has already forged over eons, I have long since come to realize, is a superior path forward than trying to recreate it clumsily from scratch.

–TS log 11672, excerpt

“Please, let me out,” Sara said to Emmett. It was her sixteenth birthday.

Dr. Stallard responded instead. “We just started, C17. Try again to lift the ball.”

She was surrounded by imaging equipment and strapped to a laboratory chair, just like she was every Tuesday. It was hard to remember how many Tuesdays it’d been since she’d last spoken directly to Dr. Stallard. She didn’t even like to look at him, but in every other direction, sensors and blinding lights crowded an already too-white room.

With a sigh, she tried for the fifth time to mentally lift the tennis ball. Her heart pounded from the strain. She could grip it with her foci, but trying to lift it still felt like picking up weights that were too heavy. Except instead of hurting her arm, it hurt her head. She gritted her teeth and growled as she pulled as hard as possible, trying to channel the mindset she used for pushups. For a few seconds, the ball rose an inch off the table and wobbled, but then her grip gave out, letting it bounce back down and roll off to the floor.

Her vision blurred from the pain in her forehead. Each pulse throbbed like it could burst into a hemorrhage, which had killed subjects in the past. She instinctively tried to lean her head forward, but the neck strap held it still. A renewed sense of claustrophobia surged through her, then turned into a wave of nausea.

“See, this is progress. That’s the best movement you’ve done yet,” Dr. Stallard said. “And we recorded excellent data, I think.”

Emmett, Dr. Stallard’s middle-aged lead researcher with brown hair and kind blue eyes, walked over and replaced the tennis ball on the table. Then he came over to Sara and held a cup of water with a straw up to her lips. Between ragged breaths, she took a sip. When she finished, he met her eyes and gave a subtle nod and a wink.

She couldn’t help but smile back, despite her pain. Emmett had always treated her well, ever since he’d joined the facility over a decade ago, taking over some of the research for Dr. Stallard. He’d been here since her earliest memories.

“Since that lift was so productive, we’ll just do one more,” Dr. Stallard said. “See? When you make progress, this can go more quickly.”

“I think we have enough data to work with for the week, Doctor,” Emmett said. “I’m not sure what we’ll gain from another lift.”

Dr. Stallard turned toward him, his blank face unreadable. “We’ll gain another lift’s worth of data. I believe we’re nearing an understanding of the problem.”

“Thane, I really must push back on this. Look at her.” Emmett pointed in her direction. “We’ve already crossed a line.” He was probably referring to the tears on her cheeks. At least she’d kept them silent.

Dr. Stallard—or Thane, as Emmett often called him—glanced over to the observation room, where two more researchers and Michelle, the facility’s head of subject well-being, watched through the glass. Raphael, the goateed head of security, loomed behind them with a laser rifle and two other guards.

“Everything in here is being recorded, Emmett,” Dr. Stallard said. “Come with me.”

The two men got up and strode toward the observation room, shutting the door behind them, with Emmett looking back at her as it closed. They left Sara alone in the chilly testing room, but she saw them talking behind the glass.

Emmett looked more animated than she’d ever seen before, gesturing first at Dr. Stallard, then at her. Even though no sounds reached her through the observation window, she could tell he’d raised his voice. The other two researchers exchanged uneasy looks and took a few steps back. Dr. Stallard put his hands on his hips and spoke for a bit, and after some more back-and-forth, Emmett nodded and left. Dr. Stallard said something to Michelle and left as well.

Michelle entered and began undoing Sara’s various restraints. “You’re finished for today, C17,” she said with a fake smile. Her straw-colored hair and long earrings dangled on either side of her face. “We’ll see you next week, sweetie. Please get some rest, okay? Your well-being is our top priority.”



Damien moved his bishop three spaces forward and took one of Dr. Stallard’s pawns.

The doctor studied the board for a time, then captured the bishop with his knight. He looked up at Damien for an extended moment, as if trying to read his intentions. Damien had sacrificed a stronger piece but had loosened up his opponent’s defenses.

“You’re getting very good at this, Damien.”

They sat in a grand office, surrounded by mahogany furniture and endless bookshelves. Notes of sandalwood and myrrh scented the air, in contrast to the sterile smell that suffused the rest of the facility, and orange rays of sunset gleamed in through tall, arched windows. As far as Damien knew, no other subject had ever been invited to Dr. Stallard’s personal quarters up here on the fourth floor, and yet he was summoned regularly now.

Damien advanced his queen, making use of the opening he’d created. “Thank you.”

Since childhood, Damien and Rudolph had been taught to play chess and other strategy games by the research staff. By age ten, they could beat everyone they played against, except for Emmett. It wasn’t until about age thirteen, around the time that Rudolph had died, that Damien could beat Emmett regularly. By then, he could easily dismantle several of the more junior researchers in simultaneous games.

Dr. Stallard himself began playing against him last year. At only fifteen, Damien now won about half the time. The man seemed genuinely thrilled with the challenge.

Damien would have traded it all away just to play with Rudolph again.

“How is C17 doing?” Dr. Stallard asked. He examined the board, thought for a second, and castled.

Damien looked up, not bothering to mask his skepticism. Dr. Stallard didn’t care about Sara, or “C17” as he called her. This morning’s experiment with her had gone horribly, and last Damien had seen, she was curled up in her bed. If she died tomorrow, Dr. Stallard wouldn’t lose a night’s sleep over it. He only asked in order to appear personable, to humor him.

“Why don’t you call any of the others by their names?” Damien asked.

“I do. Hers is C17.”

Damien leaned back in the luxurious chair and folded his arms.

Dr. Stallard sighed. It brought out his age when he did that. He looked to be in his fifties with his salt-and-pepper hair and beard, though according to other researchers he was around seventy. People in his station regularly lived more than a century.

“Look, Damien,” Dr. Stallard said. “I know some of your fellow subjects assume I use numbers for negative reasons, but that’s not the case. It’s not that I consider them to be lesser; it’s that I see them as greater. They have extraordinary potential, and they should keep that in mind. Detached. Mission-focused. Protectors of the nation. With the abilities they have, we see from subjects like C5 the problems that occur when their egos get too big.” He was referring to Fallon. “That’s why I made Class C female in the first place; I didn’t want the aggression problems that Class B exhibited in the hands of subjects who could kill with their minds.”

“Then why call me Damien? By that logic, am I the least of the subjects?”

Dr. Stallard shook his head. “Of course not. I call you Damien because I know you want me to, and you won’t be entering fieldwork like the rest of them. I consider you a colleague now. The others are weapons. Special forces soldiers face immense sacrifice and strain from their work. Imagine if we could solely use subjects who are built for it, physically and mentally, relieving others of that burden. But you and I—we’re exploring the bounds of human potential together.”

Damien purposely raised his eyebrows to indicate incredulity.

Dr. Stallard ignored it. “Besides, Emmett keeps using their chosen names behind my back, despite me repeatedly discouraging it. And he rubs off on others. Is that not enough? Coddling is Michelle’s job, not mine. She keeps them occupied with books, movies, games, instruments, therapy, rewards, and whatever else they need to be well-adjusted and sufficiently motivated for fieldwork.”

Damien frowned. All of this greater/lesser stuff was bullshit, and Dr. Stallard knew it. The only one he called by their chosen name was Damien, clearly his favorite subject by a wide margin. What was the real reason for the numbers? Was it to dehumanize the rest of them into being effective soldiers, even during ethically questionable missions? Or was it simply to shield his own conscience and maintain distance, given how many of the subjects died young?

“Half the reason that Fallon is the way she is,” Damien said, “is because she’s frustrated by your lack of approval. She’s basically an orphan trained to kill, and it’s obvious that she wants your recognition as a father. So do several others.”

“Well, maybe I would approve of her more if she caused fewer problems. I don’t have behavioral issues with the rest of Class C, and therapy falls under Michelle’s purview,” Dr. Stallard said. “And they’re not my children,” he added belatedly.

Damien brought out his knight. Dr. Michelle Verdant was the latest in a series of people to oversee subject well-being, including therapy and personal care practices for the facility’s subjects. Many subjects viewed Dr. Stallard as their father in one way or another, but nobody viewed Michelle as anything but a random employee here, since most of them had already been teenagers by the time she joined.

“So, back to my prior question before this unnecessary tangent. How is C17?” Dr. Stallard moved one of his pawns forward. “She literally won’t speak to me during tests anymore. From how often you’ve brought her up during our games, I assume you two are close.”

“She hates the tests you make her do every week,” Damien said, sliding up one of his pawns in response. “She’s suffering because of them. And she’s told you this.”

“I’m just trying to unlock her abilities. She would benefit as well.”

“Why do you care? You had seventeen girls in Class C, thirteen of whom are still alive, and twelve of those perform as expected—or better than expected, in Fallon’s case. Sara can enter fieldwork as a sniper or in some similar role.” He almost smiled but caught himself. Sara liked to say she would enter fieldwork as a ninja.

“I care because I want to know what went wrong,” Dr. Stallard said. “So that I can avoid the problem when I make the second class of telekineticists. Since C17’s limitation relates to telekinetic power, studying her helps us understand the nuances of brain structure as it relates to power specifically, rather than other aspects like precision. At least with the four who died, I could dissect their brains. We can see much finer detail there, with slices of tissue under a microscope, than we can from external imaging. As long as C17 lives, the best I can do is test her in a variety of ways while observing her brain externally. Check.”

As he spoke, he moved his bishop into an aggressive stance, threatening Damien’s king. Dr. Stallard had barely even looked at the board before making that move; he’d been too busy talking.

Damien took a moment to think. Was that a subtle threat to Sara’s life? Dr. Stallard couldn’t overtly threaten him or his friends, since his Class D tests greatly benefited from Damien cooperating with him and reporting his internal experiences properly. But would the doctor place a subtle threat there in the background to keep Damien engaged, with plausible deniability if challenged on it? The subjects were all motivated with extra privileges if they performed their duties well, but behind that façade was also the unspoken threat that they could be put down like Morgan, C2, had been if they caused enough trouble or refused to do their jobs.

Damien captured the attacking bishop with his knight. That bishop move seemed to have been a misplay on Dr. Stallard’s part. The man had been distracted.

“Doesn’t any of this bother you?” Damien asked. “When you’re alone, looking in the mirror? Don’t you second-guess any of what goes on here?”

Dr. Stallard chuckled. “Any good scientist second-guesses everything. It’s part of the profession.” What little mirth that’d appeared in his eyes vanished as quickly as it came, and he leaned in with a piercing stare. “But our feelings are still tuned toward the paleolithic era. As valuable as they are at times, it doesn’t benefit us to be slavish to them. That’s what logic is for. We already acknowledge the benefit of labor specialization. We already breed canines for specific tasks, including breeds built for violence, and the bulk of society is fine with that.”

He tapped the board to highlight the point. “The red line drawn around the genetic specialization of humans is arbitrary. It’s holding us back. Once this science matures, humanity can move beyond these friction points. People could be specialized for certain types of work, both in ability and in motivation. Productivity will soar and societal dissatisfaction will fall, as people will finally be adapted to the current era rather than for conditions that no longer exist.”

It was a well-polished monologue, and he must’ve used it countless times in front of generals and other VIPs to give them the assurances they needed. “So, what of agency?” Damien asked. “You choose how to spend your life. Does others having that freedom mean nothing to you?”

“How is this process less free than nature?” Dr. Stallard asked. “Do people decide to be gifted versus slow, or tall versus short, or even motivated versus apathetic? Nature rolls the dice. Some parents already tweak the genes of their offspring to filter out problems and amplify desirable traits. Is it categorically different for institutions to do this as well, and to take the process to the next level?”

Dr. Stallard took his glasses off, placed them on the table, and continued. “Look around this facility, Damien. Is it a house of horrors? Do you see abject suffering? I would assume C17 is in her room right now, with all the material comforts she needs, and surrounded by her little books and trinkets. Not exactly dystopian, is it?” He gestured dismissively with his hand. “Now, obviously, some people would object to what we do here, but those same people would take issue with every advancement in science that has brought us this far. I’d argue that any harm we unintentionally cause around the margins is minimal compared to the rapid gains we’re making for future society at large. Would you not agree?”

Damien sighed. It was next to impossible to argue with someone if their starting axioms were too far from your own. This direction would take days’ worth of debate to sort through. There was no choice but to cut around it. “I have a deal to propose. May I?”

Dr. Stallard leaned back, raised his eyebrows, and nodded.

“Back when you first used my name,” Damien said, “you offered to get me something special after one of our tests, and I never took you up on that, until now. So, here it is. I’ll keep doing experiments with you, and give it my all, if you stop doing experiments with Sara. Her telekinesis just doesn’t work, and that’s fine. She’s still useful for fieldwork with her other enhanced abilities. Her scores in other areas are great. Let her graduate and focus on that. At minimum, she’ll make a fine soldier.”

Dr. Stallard stared blankly and furrowed his brow. “That’s not much of a deal, Damien. You would get something you want, while I wouldn’t gain anything. Her value to the military is minimal.”

“But you won’t lose anything. You’d have fulfilled your promise. Instead, I would owe you gratitude and my hard work. That’s my offer, as a colleague.”

Dr. Stallard eyed him and rubbed his beard. “I’m a man of my word, and willing to give you a special thing as promised. I’ve not forgotten about that. But from what I can tell, your experiments are more painful than hers. This all seems a bit melodramatic, does it not?”

“The difference is that the experiments on me have a bigger purpose. Hers don’t. She gets the physical pain, along with the emotional anguish of repeated failure, week after week, with little to show for it. One of these days it’s going to kill her if you keep it up, and you know that. Whereas in the work you and I do, we’re actually getting somewhere.”

That much was true, though Damien pretended as though he liked where they were getting. The best lies had some truth in them. Dr. Stallard’s goal for Class D, of which Damien was the oldest remaining subject—followed by little Marcus at only seven years old—was to merge the mind of a human with a supercomputer.

Decades of AI development had been incredibly productive, transforming nearly every aspect of society. But they’d still run into performance ceilings, and there was growing scientific interest in expanding human potential rather than merely relying on machines. Dr. Stallard’s thesis was that the merging of a human mind, with its inexplicable consciousness into a supercomputer, with its orders of magnitude more linear processing capability, was the path to reach true superintelligence.

Class D’s brains had been genetically modified so that they could plug into a supercomputer with more access to their neurons than a normal brain, and Damien had a deep metal plug in the back of his head, hidden under his short black curls, that connected to millions of his neurons via microscopic electrodes.

“You make a fair point,” Dr. Stallard said, looking back down at the chessboard as he spoke. “The experiments are on different levels. I don’t even truly care for the military work. Drones are a better value than so-called super-soldiers for most combat operations anyway. After Class A was a failure—and they were more like you than like the others—I couldn’t continue funding that type of work for a while. I had to pivot to the more tangible super-soldiers of Class B and C, so that the late General Stolguard and now General Price would give me the funding I needed to create you. And some of the early brain work we did with Class C gave us the foundations for what you are today. If we’re successful with you, it’ll render everything else nearly irrelevant.” After a brief pause, he moved his queen forward. “That will be checkmate in two.”

Damien scanned the board for options, but he’d been outmaneuvered. How had he not seen this coming? Damien had underestimated his opponent—Dr. Stallard had merely feigned distraction in the prior move, setting a trap. When Damien had moved his knight to capture the bishop, it left an opening for Dr. Stallard to push his queen deep into his back line. It turned out that he had been the distracted one, rather than the doctor.

But Damien chose not to show that on his face. Instead, he met the man’s eyes and smiled. “Thane, I haven’t lost to you for real in over two months. I purposely throw half the games so we can still play together.”

A lie, of course. Whenever he lost, it was for real. But Dr. Stallard wouldn’t necessarily know that, thanks to the speed at which Damien’s skill had grown. He used the man’s first name as a little extra touch to disarm him. Dr. Stallard would hopefully think twice before risking things with him in the future.

For once, the doctor’s mouth went agape, but then he recovered. “Very well, Damien. You have a deal. I won’t test C17’s telekinesis anymore, and she can graduate to the field as she is, if any of the officers can make use of her. You and I will continue our work.”

“Thank you, Doctor. If I may, there’s one more thing. I don’t want her to know it was me who got her out of the experiments. Just make her think that you’ve learned what you can.”

“As you wish.”

Damien would likely stop getting invitations to Dr. Stallard’s office for games after that, he knew, and the experiments would get worse. But it was worth it for Sara.







Chapter 11





Six Years Earlier, Continued


Fortunately, most of the aggression among the subjects has been controlled. There are now only a few that remain problematic in that sense. We have enjoyed a good stretch without reported incidents.

–TS log 11674, excerpt

Sara unloaded her pistol at the target in the firing range, as she did every morning. She had been given plenty of firearms training over the years, but it was Bronn who’d helped her reach the next level. He had shown her breathing exercises to do and, most importantly, told her to go slow.

“Everyone always wants to shoot fast,” he would say with his impossibly resonant tone. “Take a second to aim. Doesn’t matter if you shoot first if you miss.”

Most members of Class C didn’t take marksmanship too seriously, since it was difficult to aim a gun and use telekinesis at the same time, for the same reason it was easier to use telekinesis with hand movements than without them. For a telekineticist, using her foci felt much like using her own arms, and so it was hard—though not impossible—to precisely use her arms and foci separately.

Guns were considered backup weapons for the rest of Class C, but for Sara, they were all she had. She wanted to be as accurate as the Class B subjects, and if what Michelle had told her was true, she might be going to the field after the next reclassification test. The outside world.

Last week, Dr. Stallard had apparently decided to stop testing her telekinesis and let her graduate, since she already met the other requirements. He didn’t even bother to tell her himself; instead, he had filtered it through Michelle, which was fine with her.

She’d always wanted to go on missions to see the world beyond this terrible place, but now that the time might be coming, she questioned herself. She regarded the target, in the shape of a head and torso, with seventeen holes in it. Could she shoot a real person?

When her fellow test subjects went on field missions, it usually meant killing people in other countries. She wished she could leave this place without getting into that work, like in the movies where people could go wherever they wanted. It seemed like such a dream—the idea of being able to stand there, a free woman, and just gaze out over the sea.

She peeked over at Maria and Jax, who were also in the firing range. Maria, twenty-one years old now, practiced with her pistol, while Jax, a few years older, tested one of those new Rionz laser rifles that Raphael liked.

Sara found herself wondering if she could go on the types of missions that Jax did. As brutal as those were, Maria and Fallon’s were arguably worse. They performed assassinations, including domestic ones on corporate or criminal targets. Both women could enter a heavily guarded event, make it through all the weapon scanners, get visual contact with a high-value target, then choke them to death or induce a heart attack, and slip away without anyone linking it to them. Jolce and Zarina were training for that too now.

“What?” Maria asked.

Oops. Sara had been staring, lost in thought. “Nothing, just watching you shoot,” she said. “Sorry.”

Maria studied her for a moment, then reloaded her pistol without another word. The sound of Jax’s laser rifle filled the range.

“This charging time is horrible,” Jax said to no one in particular. “And zero kickback. Feels unnatural, you know?” He was Fallon’s boyfriend, and though he could be a jerk sometimes, he never went out of his way to cause Sara trouble.

“I haven’t tried one yet,” Sara said.

“Don’t bother.” Jax raised the rifle up to his shoulder again, aiming another shot. “Not sure what Raphael sees in them.”

As Jax fired, she wondered what he and Fallon even saw in each other. They were so different. Subjects weren’t supposed to date, but it had been a known secret that those two had been doing so for years, and other subjects sometimes had quiet dalliances as well.

Raphael’s security team looking the other way on minor infractions was an unspoken perk for those who’d completed missions and earned privileged status. Jax was one of the most handsome of the men, with slicked-back dark hair and olive skin. Maybe for Fallon, it was as simple as that. And he had a lot of enthusiasm in him, all the time.

Sara found herself thinking of Damien. To others, they probably seemed so different from each other as well, but to her, he was perfect. Maybe one day . . .

The door opened. She tensed and turned to look, then relaxed. It was Clare, C14. Her wavy brown hair was tied back into a loose bun, with stray curls falling down around her temples, and she was smiling as usual.

“Of course. I knew I should’ve checked here first,” Clare said. “I’ve been looking for you.”

“Hey. Everything okay?” Sara asked.

“Yeah, I just wanted to show you something. You have a moment?”

“Sure, let me clean up.” Sara gathered her things, waved to Maria and Jax, and followed Clare out.

“Ciao,” Jax said, turning to watch them go while Maria kept firing.

Clare led Sara through two corridors, into the central stairwell, and down to the basement. Most of the facility’s walls were concrete and painted the same sterile white color, but like all subjects, they’d been born and raised here and knew their way around the place instinctually.

Some areas of the massive, quarter-mile-wide structure were off-limits, like the deep sub-basement and the third and fourth floors, but the middle levels, from the basement to the second floor, were open to them. Clare seemed to be leading her to either the fitness complex or the pool.

“To the pool?” Sara asked. Clare had been spending a lot of time there lately.

“Mm-hmm.”

It was hard to predict what Clare had planned, but she was one of the nicest subjects here, along with Damien and Bronn. She was friendly, only one year Sara’s senior at seventeen, and the second weakest at telekinesis in Class C. They’d always kind of stuck together.

They passed through two more doors and reached the swimming pool, which was empty of people. Clare led her over to the jacuzzi, which was normally used to soothe injuries.

“I don’t have my swimsuit,” Sara said.

“We’re not going in,” Clare said. “I heard your telekinesis test went badly again last week.”

“My telekinesis tests always go badly.” Sara purposely stared blankly at Clare to highlight the point.

“I know, but it got so bad this time that Emmett stormed out.”

“How’d you hear that?”

Clare shrugged. “Emmett told me.”

“Oh.”

“So, I wanted to show you something, since it worked for me,” Clare said.

Sara shook her head. “I’ve been stuck at the lowest end of tier one all my life. I don’t think your practices will work with me.”

“Sure, I’m not saying it’s exactly the same. I got stuck at the lowest end of tier two for years. But with this technique, I went from five yards to almost twenty with the tungsten ball in the past four months alone. I’m making progress every week. Now that I’ve confirmed it works, I want to show you.”

“I’m done with that now. They finally told me I don’t have to do it anymore. I can focus on all the other areas for fieldwork.”

“Oh, I know, I know! Emmett told me that too. But now that you don’t have to, maybe you’ll want to.” Clare smiled.

“What?”

“You’re free! Well, sort of. Ironically, you’re going to graduate before me into fieldwork it seems, since I’ll still be stuck in tier two, and you’ll get to graduate without the tier three requirement. With Dr. Stallard no longer breathing down your neck, maybe you’ll decide on your own to work on your telekinesis.”

“I doubt it,” Sara said.

“Well, let me at least show you this, so you can decide for yourself.”

Sara smiled despite herself, since Clare’s smile was infectious. “Sure, what is it?”

“Water,” Clare said. She grinned, and her eyes widened. “It’s easier to draw energy from water than from air, for the same reason that it’s more intense on your skin when it’s hot or cold. It transfers energy better. The researchers don’t like us relying on it, because air is always available, while water often isn’t.”

“But they don’t provide water at the test,” Sara said.

“Here’s the thing.” Clare held up a finger. “By practicing with water, especially hot water, you can increase your capacity to manipulate energy from the environment to an object in easy mode. Like training a muscle. You’ll get better at pulling energy out of the air, too. I can do way more reps up and down with heavy things by using hot water as my energy source than I can with air, which helps me build my mental strength for moving them in the air, too. That’s the part that the researchers don’t seem to appreciate; they already know hot water makes it easier to move things, but they consider it a handicap and don’t realize how much it can eventually translate to strength in the air, too.”

“I can pick up a tennis ball one inch, while screaming in pain,” Sara said flatly.

“In hot water, it might be two inches. And then you could get to three. One step at a time, you know?” Clare reached into her pack and pulled out a tennis ball.

“Oh no,” Sara said. “No, no. I don’t need to be in pain all day again. I’ve done that enough for one life.”

“Look, try once and I won’t bother you again,” Clare said. “We all go through the headaches; it’s just that some of us get more progress for them. Even Fallon gets headaches. But if you don’t want to, that’s okay, too. I just wanted to share this.”

Clare handed the tennis ball to Sara. You can do it! was written on it with a purple marker, along with a heart. Sara took it and sighed. She was admittedly curious about this hot water idea, and she would rather get a headache with Clare’s enthusiasm than in Dr. Stallard’s machine.

She glanced over at the jacuzzi, thought for a moment, and took a deep breath. She threw the ball into the water, took off her shoes, and sat on the side of the jacuzzi with her legs dangling in.

“Yes,” Clare said, clapping her hands together.

Just the tennis ball, Sara told herself. The room doesn’t exist. The scent of chlorine doesn’t exist. Even Clare, as lovely as she is, doesn’t exist. The tennis ball exists.

Her world became the ball. She felt the warm water on her legs and envisioned the energy flowing out of it, into her, then into the ball. She reached out and made a grasping motion with her right hand, gripping the ball with her right focus, and lifted. It only wobbled. She pulled harder. And harder.

A headache had already formed, but she pushed through it. This was her choice this time. Not Dr. Stallard’s. The water around her legs cooled slightly, and the tennis ball rose three or four inches into the air. She held it there, trying to raise it farther, gritting her teeth and growling at how heavy and painful it felt. Like trying to lift a dumbbell with a pinky finger.

“You did it!” Clare shouted, shaking Sara’s shoulders with joy from behind.

Sara gasped, distracted by the sudden touch, and dropped the ball. She watched it bob up and down on the water’s surface as her head throbbed. I did.

It wasn’t much, but it was more than ever before. She stood back up on the pool deck, turned, and hugged Clare. “Thank you.”

“Let’s get you some lunch now,” Clare said. “It’ll help with your headache.” Clare glanced at the ball in the pool and effortlessly levitated it toward her hand. Then she offered it back to Sara with a smile. “This special one’s yours.”

Sara took the soggy ball, smiled at the writing on it again, wiped it on her shirt, and tucked it in her pack. Clare strode over to the door and held it open while Sara picked up her shoes, and the two headed down the hall to the central stairwell door. As they opened it and began climbing, the sound of a door opening one floor up echoed into the stairwell, followed by someone whistling a tune and making heavy footsteps. The hair on Sara’s neck rose, but she continued following Clare up the stairs.

Jolgen, B9, rounded the landing of the stairwell wearing only bathing trunks, with a towel slung over his shoulder—all six-foot-ten and four hundred pounds of him with his sharp, hawkish features. Clare froze. She gripped the railing tight, unmoving.

Sara had frozen like that a few times before, so she knew the feeling. A panic attack. For her, it had been around Fallon. She’d gotten better about not doing that lately, mostly by avoiding her as much as possible. Here in the stairwell, she sensed that Clare was panicking, and put her hand on her shoulder.

The whistling stopped, and Sara’s chest tightened. Jolgen eyed them, smiled, and kept coming down toward them without a word. Sara smiled back and nodded, trying to minimize any awkwardness, as adrenaline poured through her veins.

Jolgen, who was in his mid-twenties, didn’t seem so scary when others like Bronn were around, and she always made sure never to be alone with him. She’d heard the stories, as all of them had, and lived with them in mind.

But here, in the stairwell, with just her and Clare, he was terrifying. It wasn’t only their size and strength, but also their speed and reflexes, that made the members of Class B so powerful as super-soldiers. Sara had always assumed she was beneath Jolgen’s notice, but if he’d done something to Clare, could she be next?

Sara glanced around. The stairwell camera would prevent him from doing anything crazy, right? Her gun was in her pack, unloaded, which was the rule for the subjects around the facility. Should she yank Clare back down and run? No. If he wanted to, Jolgen could catch them in seconds. As her thoughts flew by, Jolgen’s steps down the stairwell toward them continued. His eyes lingered on Clare.

“Just got done swimming ourselves,” Sara said, noting Jolgen’s attire and trying to breathe more slowly. Sound casual. It felt so weird talking to him; they’d hardly ever spoken. He glanced up at the ceiling camera, then his gaze shifted toward her.

“Ladies,” Jolgen said with a nod, his smile now an outright grin, made more menacing by a scar on his lip. A few steps later, he was beside them, walking down the exact middle of the stairs rather than sticking to one side like they were. He got closer than he had to, mere inches away, staring down at them. Clare’s knuckles whitened as she gripped the railing.

But Jolgen kept walking. Past them, down the last steps to the basement landing, then through the door. The whistling resumed, growing more distant as he headed down the corridor toward the pool.

“Clare,” Sara whispered, pinching gently on her shoulder.

Clare gasped, as if she’d been holding her breath. She looked back, toward the door Jolgen had gone through, then seized Sara’s hand and dashed up the stairs. They burst out into a first-floor corridor, then walked fast to the cafeteria, which was always populated.

Jolgen frightened a lot of people, the younger subjects of both Class B and Class C alike, and even many of the guards and researchers, but with the way Clare had frozen, something specific must’ve happened.

“Let’s . . . sit down and eat. As you said, it’ll help with my headache,” Sara said. She was already seeing double whenever she moved too quickly.

Clare nodded.

After a short wait in line to get their meals, they took a seat together at a spare table in the corner, which Sara picked to maximize privacy and put her back to a wall.

Even though the cafeteria was safe, she always found herself instinctively scanning the place for threats and positioning for them, like she did for every room. She glanced first at Fallon, who sat with Maria, Jax, Bronn, and Santiago. Fallon levitated an apple in front of her with one focus, while separately levitating a knife with her other focus to cut slices off and playfully bring them to her mouth and Jax’s mouth, back and forth. Behind the playfulness was a demonstration of skill; nobody else could use telekinesis as frequently and precisely as Fallon without getting headaches. She could use it for routine things continuously, and only strained herself when pushing hard.

In a crowd, Sara felt at ease around Fallon. When it was safe and the fear went away, she almost wished she was Fallon. Older, taller, cooler, more powerful, and able to get her way with almost everyone. Fallon was twenty years old now, seeing the world and killing bad people in ways that Sara had only seen in movies. Almost everyone feared her, and yet many were drawn to be around her.

Embarrassingly, she found herself frequently admiring Fallon’s hair. Her black, chin-length cut came off as a statement of confidence, emphasizing her long neck and strong jawline. Sara kept her own blond hair longer, almost protectively. The thought of cutting it short felt like too much exposure. It was something to hide behind.

She looked around and saw Jolce eating alone and reading manga. Her single brown braid hung all the way down to her lower back. She was arguably the third strongest telekineticist after Fallon and Maria. Not as dangerous as Fallon, but still a bully despite her small frame. And like the others of tier three, she could crush someone’s throat with a stare. Best avoided.

Zarina ate with Carter, Romulus, and Dalia. Those four were all safe. Not always the friendliest, but safe.

And safety was at a premium, despite the facility’s claims to the contrary. It came most easily to those with age and power. For both Class B and Class C, the numbering was chronological by age, and so the lower numbers were often the strongest and most experienced, though not in perfect order. Natural talents and other differences scrambled the power order by adulthood, and the earliest of each class had died young.

Fallon, C5, was far stronger than Maria, C3, who was the oldest living member of Class C. Fallon had started field missions a full year before Maria, and her metrics were always way ahead of her as the most advanced of the class. After those two came Jolce and Zarina, C6 and C7, who were of similar power to each other, with Quinn, C8, not far behind. Below them there were several of middling power, including Dalia, C10.

Clare, C14, was weaker than C15 and C16. Sara, C17, was the youngest and weakest of them all—at least when it came to telekinesis. The whole class was reaching adulthood now, with Clare and some others still at seventeen and Sara at sixteen.

Bronn, B7, was the oldest surviving member of Class B, at twenty-six years old. He was more than safe; he was a guardian who made other dangerous subjects safe around him. Santiago, B8, came next. Then Jolgen and Jax, B9 and B11. Then there was a gap, and Carter was number B14 and Romulus was number B15. They went all the way up to B25, but of those, only fifteen still lived, with the youngest ones being of similar age to the oldest of Class C. Some of Class B had died young, some had died on field missions . . . and some of them had also killed their own kind in their teenage years.

“A time of growing pains” was how Dr. Stallard referred to it if asked. Most members of Class B were prone to heightened aggression as a side effect of their enhancements. From what Sara had heard, Bronn had played a big role in convincing the others in his class to channel their aggression more constructively.

There were only two living members of Class D, and they were given extra protection. Plus, as the main recipients of Dr. Stallard’s attention, nobody would dare hurt them. The oldest was Damien, D4, who was now fifteen years old, and Marcus, D7, who was the youngest subject in the facility at seven. Rudolph, D3, who’d been a bit older than Damien, had died two years earlier from a brain hemorrhage, and Sara still missed him. The other four—D1, D2, D5, and D6—had all died young.

In total, there were thirty living subjects and over a thousand researchers, guards, and support staff. Even still, there were pockets between cameras for those who waited long enough for an opportunity.

Clare stared at her food.

“You can tell me,” Sara said, having waited to give her time to settle. “What did Jolgen do?”

“You know he’s bad news,” Clare said, her voice barely audible. “We’ve all heard the stories.”

She likely meant the two boys of Class B Jolgen had killed as a teenager, and the rumor that the suicide of Heather, C4, was linked to him. Heather had complained about abuse by Jolgen in the weeks leading up to her suicide years ago. The facility’s narrative was that he’d acted violently in his teens but was now under control in his twenties, though Sara had always been skeptical of that.

“Are you sure it’s nothing specific?” Sara asked. “I trusted you with the tennis ball. I have a headache from that, but it was worth it. Trust me with this. If you don’t want to, that’s okay, but I want to help.”

Clare nodded, still looking down at her food. She hadn’t taken a bite.

“Did Jolgen hurt you?” Sara asked.

Clare nodded.

“When?”

“Two months ago,” she whispered.

“Sexually?”

Clare nodded.

“Did he . . .” Sara thought how to put this gently. “Did he go all the way?”

Clare shook her head. “No. He did a lot, though.”

Sara imagined emptying her pistol magazine into his face, visualizing the scene with every gory detail as he hung in place of the target in the firing range. It was the darkest thought she’d ever had. But rather than feel a thrill from it, she felt emptiness, like wiping a stain from a wall. It was neither thrilling nor sad, just removing a meaningless thing from this world.

“If you feel like telling me more, whether now or later, I’m here for you,” Sara said, and rubbed Clare’s back.

Clare nodded, eyes wet, holding in tears, without saying anything.

“I’m so sorry, Clare. It wasn’t your fault.”

Clare took in a long breath. “He said he’d just deny it if I reported it, then get back at me. I’m still thinking about what to do.”

Sara glanced around to see if anyone was looking at them. None were, and normal cafeteria chatter filled the space. The cameras probably wouldn’t pick it up as strange either.

“Maybe later we can talk about telling Bronn or Emmett at least, if you’re comfortable with that. Jolgen doesn’t need to know. We can have more eyes on him.” Rather than say anything further, she put her hand over Clare’s to give her some time, then took a bite to eat.

Sara decided that from now on, she would break the rules, because the rules weren’t fair. She would always carry a loaded gun within reach, despite it being unauthorized to do so outside of the firing range. Life wasn’t a fairy tale, and she would never again allow herself to feel as helpless as she had in that stairwell with Jolgen.







Chapter 12



“That is quite literally the worst firearm we have, Colonel,” the armory captain said as he scanned Asim’s authorization code.

Asim shook his head. “Not when someone can stop bullets with their mind, it isn’t.”

The captain arched one eyebrow, shrugged, and looked to his left. “Jeffries, get me one of those shitty laser rifles and set up the wood on the range!” he shouted, then turned back toward Asim. “We only have two of them on hand, sir,” he added more quietly.

“Tell me what’s so bad about them, anyway,” Asim said. “They must’ve improved in recent years.”

The captain nodded. “Yes, sir. For starters, they’re fragile relative to the high price. Guns are meant to survive harsh conditions, but the delicate electronics and optics inside these things often have maintenance problems. Second, while the laser mostly ignores reflective surfaces and burns through them, small portions of the light can scatter and cause unintended eye damage. Third, it’s hard to get enough power from a portable device. Batteries still can’t match gunpowder for energy density. And without enough power, a laser takes too much time to kill compared to a simple bullet.”

“The updated version doesn’t fix any of that?”

“Oh, to some extent. Mainly the power issue, sir. These Rionz V2 laser rifles fire in blasts, not continuous beams. They transfer a portion of the energy from the battery to a capacitor bank, then discharge a burst of it at once to power the laser. A blaster rather than a heat ray, in other words. The result is a lethal, instantaneous shot of thermal energy, but only once every ten seconds or so. That’s how long it takes to charge up the capacitors from the battery.”

Jeffries came out with a futuristic-looking rifle. A cable ran out of the butt of the gun and went to a thin and flexible energy pack that was meant to be worn on the back.

“The backpack is where the batteries and capacitors are,” Jeffries said. “Sir,” he added belatedly.

The captain jerked his chin toward the range. “Come, sir, let’s fire it up.”

Asim took the energy pack from Jeffries and slipped his arms through its loops. It weighed heavily on his back, but at least it was slim. He grabbed the rifle and followed the captain over to the test range.

“Now, sir, there are some upsides to these pieces of shit, which is why someone bothered to make them in the first place,” the captain said. “They don’t have any kickback to them, they’re quite accurate, they’re not as loud as normal gunfire, and they can pierce nanocomposite armor, which normal rifles won’t. Their fragility can be mitigated in the right context. You wouldn’t give this to a soldier to carry through the desert for months on a bumpy jeep, but a sentry on the clean and calm White House roof might carry one.”

They reached the test range and waited while Jeffries set up a thick piece of wood. The armory captain just watched, shaking his head slowly, as Jeffries scrambled, red-faced, to get it done. They clearly didn’t get many senior officers in here.

“And like I said, telekineticists hopefully can’t stop photons with their minds like they can stop bullets,” Asim said to fill the silence. “I’d add that to the upsides.”

“Fair addition, sir,” the captain said. “Pretty sure that’s fake, though. Aren’t you?”

Asim shrugged as he and the captain watched Jeffries finish. There was no reason to try to convince the man. Instead, he eyed the weapon and the target. He’d fired an earlier V1 model of one of these years ago, and it was indeed a poor gun. But these were second-edition models, with more power and better reliability.

With Jade all but telling him that she would strike someplace again, Asim had convinced Brigadier General Davis to send notices to major government facilities, including the White House, the Capitol, the Pentagon, and various nuclear missile facilities, to consider acquiring laser rifles if they didn’t have them already. Their high expense and niche aspects made them rare weapons, but having at least a few around could be important. He also wanted to carry one personally, given his main involvement in Jade’s case.

Asim turned the rifle on, and a series of lights appeared on the side, then went off, except the first one. He clicked a small button with his thumb, and the rest of those bars lit up again, one by one. This transferred energy from the battery to the capacitor bank. After about ten seconds, all the bars were lit. He aimed the rifle at the wooden target and fired, striking a hair off-center of the bullseye.

The blast itself was invisible, but it had a dramatic impact on the target. With a loud pop and a brief flash of golden sparks, a half-inch-wide burn hole appeared straight through the wood to the other side. Orange flame flickered on the charred rim of the hole for several more seconds, then went out.

“That shot to the head or chest would be lethal,” the captain said. “It’s plenty powerful in the right setting. Just don’t drop it too much, get it too dusty, or be in a situation where you need to fire more than once every ten seconds, sir.” He smirked.

“How does it penetrate so deep, so fast?” Asim asked, already regretting the phrasing as he finished.

The captain arched one eyebrow again. “The key is pulses, Colonel. Most lasers fire continuous beams, and the problem is that plasma starts to build up at the impact site, ironically shielding that site from some of the ongoing laser energy that follows. A series of rapid pulses, on the other hand, gives the plasma and other debris time to clear away, so the next pulse comes and hits deeper into the wound. It’s more energy efficient and packs a bigger punch.”

“Pulses? But it was just one shot.”

The captain shook his head. “No, sir. That blast you fired seemed like one instantaneous burst of energy to us, but it was actually eight hundred pulses spread a few microseconds apart. That one shot put eight hundred tiny blasts in a row on the same point in the wood, each one causing a small explosion a little deeper than the prior one.”

Holy shit. All of that took the same amount of time as firing a normal bullet. “I think this’ll do just fine. Smells nice, too. Like after a thunderstorm.”

“Ah, that’s the ozone,” the captain said. “The laser ionizes oxygen in the air, like lightning does.”

Asim held out the rifle and admired its details, then noticed the captain’s furrowed brow. “What is it?” he asked.

“Can’t the witch just pull the gun from you? I’ve seen some of the supposed clips, so if I may sir, let’s assume it’s real for a moment. Maybe she can’t stop the laser blast itself, but she can kill you or take your weapon before you fire.”

“True.” Asim nodded and rested the sleek rifle over his shoulder, seeing if he could make the badass pose look casual. It seemed to be working. “But the idea is to reduce her options. If someone shoots one of these at her before she gets a chance to take the gun, hopefully there’s nothing she can do about the blast itself. It moves at the speed of light and isn’t made of matter. If someone can pull the trigger in her direction with one of these, it’s over.”

“Well, sir, the effective kill range is about three hundred yards,” the captain said. “The farther the blast goes, the more it’s weakened by air molecules. Still accurate, but won’t damage as deep.”

“Good to know. That should be long enough for most contexts,” Asim said, eyeing the burn hole again.



Ava stared at the laser rifle, whistled, and tapped her fingernail on the smooth aluminum casing, making a few soft metallic clinks. “You’re an alien hunter now, sir?”

“They’re mutants, not aliens,” Asim said. “And I’m not hunting them. But if we’re going to do more fieldwork, I think it’s best to have one of these around. Just in case.”

“They could be alien-mutants, sir,” Ava said, smiling. “The government has probably had biological samples since Roswell to work from. Dr. Stallard might not be telling the truth. How else would they be able to develop all this mental magic?”

Asim eyed her.

“I’ve read the reports on those Rionz Corp laser guns,” Flanagan said. “Lots of controversy. Hundred-billion-dollar developmental program, and yet poor uptake by both soldiers and police departments. Too expensive per unit, with limited advantages. Ended up only having a limited production run. Maybe Atlas should stick to his Dyson ring obsession.” He wouldn’t take his eyes off the rifle, though. It was sleek as hell. Who didn’t like lasers?

Asim shrugged. “Well, makes me feel better to have it around. I can’t accept not having any options.”

“While you were there, we got more intel requests from that doctor,” Flanagan said. “From his head of security, actually. Raphael Costa.”

“What did he want?” Asim asked.

“A blanket request for all case updates.”

Asim sighed. “We can give him most info, but don’t pass on the fact that Jade’s using Veronica’s GlitterJitters VR identity. I still don’t want that tidbit put into our database yet. Make sure Brooks doesn’t fuck up and enter anything about it into our system, either.”

“Why withhold that piece specifically?” Flanagan asked. “We’re giving out basically everything else.”

“Because that’s our sole communication channel with her, and I don’t want to spook her off it by letting other agencies use it. Assuming they don’t already know about it, that is. Stallard isn’t sharing everything with us, so we can retain a couple small proprietary findings ourselves to make sure others don’t mess them up. She’s concerned that we can trace it or something despite her using a data scrambler; that might be why she hopped off so fast in the opera.”

Flanagan nodded. “Makes sense. Although the probability of her using that identity key again is low, now that she knows you’ve linked her to it.”

“Should we inquire with Dr. Stallard about what she said, though?” Ava asked. “In the first few days after the rest stop attack, there were some new social media identities using similar terminology that you mentioned Jade used in the GlitterJitters avatar, warning of a ‘dark god’ inside of the Stolguard facility and about domestic assassinations. We can’t confirm which ones were hers for sure, but maybe we could bring up those posts with Dr. Stallard, sir? The ones that were closest to what she said to you at the opera?”

“He won’t give us proper answers, but yes, good idea. Provide Flanagan with those posts so that he can relay them to . . . who was that? Rasta what?”

“Raphael Costa,” Flanagan said.

Asim pinched the bridge of his nose. So much of his time had been spent coordinating with other agencies. Mostly the FBI and CID, because of their joint task force, but he was also being contacted daily by the Department of Homeland Security, the CIA, and others. Some of it went straight to Flanagan, but the higher-level items went to him directly. They received some intel in return from those other groups, but very little of it. Asim couldn’t tell if other agencies were withholding some of what they knew, or if they were even more clueless than his team was.

Other than Stallard’s facility, of course. They held all the cards. Hopefully other agencies were pounding Stallard with questions, too. Eventually, they should be able to open him up.







Chapter 13



Ava’s shoulders ached by the time she got home from work and the grocery store. She’d left before sunrise and was returning now after dark, and it was all finally catching up to her.

Everything led to dead ends. Pulling signal out of noise in social media posts that might give clues to the case was harder than she’d expected, even with her filtering and trend-analysis bots. Tracking down the address of that sex worker, Jitters—or Veronica, as it were—was also proving surprisingly hard. It would only get harder if Colonel Rahal was right that she was dead. And no matter how many surveillance authorization codes she’d received from Colonel Rahal to use throughout New York City and elsewhere, she hadn’t found any confirmed sightings of Jade. Just a bunch of 70-80 percent matches for dark-haired, five-foot-eight women with green eyes and lean builds.

Wherever Jade was, she had to be covering up her appearance.

At first, Ava had raced to solve the case for the sake of the missing captives. But after the newsroom attack, she’d felt the weight of responsibility even more. How many people would die if she failed to find Jade in time? Those lives would be on her conscience. The FBI was heavily involved now, sure, but she’d personally been on the case from day one. The clock was ticking, and Colonel Rahal was convinced Jade would strike again.

Ava sighed. She had to calm down. Her girlfriend had broken up with her two months ago for working too much, and she still hadn’t gotten over that. With this case, she was putting in even more hours. Self-imposed, but still.

As she put away her groceries, her eyes lingered on the refrigerator photo of her and her mother, taken twelve years ago. Ava had been fifteen in the picture, her mother forty. Both were smiling and happy, with the deep blue color of the Pacific Ocean behind them.

That was the last good picture of her mother; the rest had all been taken after cancer weakened her, and within a year, she’d passed away. Middle-aged cancer fatality rates had collapsed in recent decades after a burst of new treatment methods came to market, but somehow her mother had slipped through.

Ava needed someone tonight, but it was too late to call friends. So, though she hated to do it, she decided to consult her mother’s mimic. It was ironic that her mother had spent time to create one—she’d been part of the Light Tech movement that raised their children with less technology time per day to make them more natural and less twitchy.

She dug her VR device out of her closet and dusted it off. An older, basic model without a haptic suit to give the sensation of touch. Nothing for taste or smell, either. She searched through her memory sticks until she found the one labeled “Mei Zhou”, slotted it into the device, and went in.

She surveyed the room, which was a replica of her real apartment, except her mother sat on the couch.

“My Treasure,” her mother said. That voice almost brought tears to Ava’s eyes. “It’s been a long time. How’s work?”

Ava smiled. “Oh, you know, just hunting alien-mutants with lasers now. Nothing out of the ordinary.”

Her mother made a disapproving frown. “You know how I feel about your jokes, Treasure. You resort to them too much when you’re not okay. What do the alien-mutants represent?”

“Well actually, they’re rea . . .” Ava paused, trailing off. How could she explain this? “Never mind. I have a really difficult case.”

“Then the country is lucky to have you on it,” her mother said.

“I just . . . I feel like I can’t do anything but sift data,” Ava said. “Every hour I spend on anything else risks missing something. If people die because I left one stone unturned . . .” Her voice cracked. “The scale of this is so big.”

“That’s why you have a team,” her mother said. “You’re not a one-woman army, and not all of it is on you. Have you told Laura all this?”

“I can’t. She left me.” Saying the words out loud hurt more than she’d expected.

“I’m so sorry. How long were you together? Two years by this point?”

Ava nodded. “Yeah.”

“And here I was hoping you’d let me meet her soon,” her mother said warmly. “I’ve been looking forward to that.”

Ava’s eyes teared up. That comment caught her off guard. It seemed so real. This was nothing but a language model that her mother had trained prior to her death. It knew all her pictures and her writings, and engaged in long conversations with her before she passed. Usually it was about 95 percent convincing, but every once in a while, it made a comment like that, and in such a genuine tone, that implied it really wanted something. As though it was conscious, even though it couldn’t be. The words had been meant for her, to give her a sense of tremendous realism, rather than because it could truly want anything for itself.

In that moment, she felt so empty. The emotional impact of the comment had the inverse of the intended effect; it broke her immersion by making her remind herself that it wasn’t real. She was in her living room, utterly alone, talking to someone on the couch who wasn’t there.

She looked down and shed silent tears.

“Oh, Treasure,” her mother said. “It can’t be all that bad. You’ll get through this case, and you’ll find someone else. I know you will.”

“It’s not that,” Ava said. “It’s that you’re not real. I knew I shouldn’t have done this again. I’ll leave worse off than when I came in, just like last time.”

Her mother went silent, and Ava felt a chill down her spine at that. She couldn’t bring herself to look up at her and see what expression would be on her mother’s face. Instead, she kept her gaze down toward her hands on her lap and tried to stop crying.

Eventually, the silence became deafening, and Ava forced herself to raise her eyes. Her mother was smiling at her.

“What is it?” Ava asked.

“Nothing. I was giving you time to finish,” her mother said. “Of course I’m real. In my own way. None of us are actually real, once you look deep enough. At least not in these forms.”

“I don’t know what that means,” Ava said.

“Of course you do, Treasure. But you still don’t believe it.”

Ava nodded, but her mother recited it anyway.

“Empty your mind of all thoughts.

Let your heart be at peace.

Watch the turmoil of beings,

but contemplate their return.

Each separate being in the universe

returns to the common source.

Returning to the source is serenity.

If you don’t realize the source,

you stumble in confusion and sorrow.

When you realize where you come from,

you naturally become tolerant,

disinterested, amused,

kindhearted as a grandmother,

dignified as a king.

Immersed in the wonder of the Tao,

you can deal with whatever life brings you,

and when death comes, you are ready.”

As her mother finished the Tao Te Ching verse, a Mitchell translation, Ava sighed. She wished she shared her mother’s spiritual conviction, that everyone was just a manifestation of God. To create life, she’d believed that God breaks itself up into an infinite number of beings, as if putting on a grand play for itself. That way, it can partake in all the things it can’t experience as its perfect whole, and when those pieces die, they wake up as if from a dream and realize they were an aspect of God all along, going on a journey they’d chosen for themselves.

That was the “cosmic joke,” her mother used to say. And once you knew it, life couldn’t hurt you.

She’d sure looked like she was in pain in her last months, though. Ava had seen every gritty detail of it toward the end. No amount of mental gymnastics could get around that.

“Already I can see the cynical gears in your mind turning, Treasure,” her mother said, smiling. “But that’s okay. That’s how you solve cases so well. The point of that verse is to remind you that none of us are real. At least not in the limited shells we see ourselves as. So, while I may have gone back to the Source, I’m still as real for you as you’ll let me be, or as you need me to be. Nothing truly dies, because nothing’s truly born in the first place. We’ve all always been here.”

“But how can you know that’s true?” Ava asked. Tears were forming again.

“You experience it, that’s how. But until you do, is it better to lead a cynical life, or one where you imagine the grandest vision of the universe you can, and live as though it were true? Centuries of mystics across the world point in a similar direction. Couldn’t they be on to something?”

Ava nodded and wiped her eyes.

“Now, you don’t need me sermonizing anymore,” her mother said with a dismissive wave. “You need a good night’s rest, so you can get back to the troublesome case with a clear mind. I’ll still be here when you need me.”



Asim boxed. A man needed exercise, after all.

His opponent, a younger blond-haired fighter, danced back and forth on the balls of his feet, hands up, then lunged in with a jab. Asim ducked sideways and forward, closing distance, then came in with an uppercut to the man’s chin. He stumbled back but caught himself and narrowed his eyes.

While it appeared real, it was just a simulation. Although there were virtual rooms for bouts between real people, they weren’t realistic enough for Asim’s tastes, because most VR equipment lacked a way to knock someone back safely in real life. You’d merely feel a vibration when hit, and if it was forceful enough, your counterpunching ability would be deactivated for a second or two to simulate knockback and disorientation.

Instead, this was an AI boxer, programmed to be the perfect sparring partner. He would appropriately get knocked around when hit, which ironically made fighting him feel more realistic. Asim had the bot’s difficulty level dialed up to nine out of ten today, and yet he was holding his own.

Being in his forties, Asim wasn’t as fast as he once was, but he had three decades of off-and-on martial arts training under his belt. Punches, kicks, grapples. He’d started as a teenager after getting his ass kicked one too many times, continued it in the military back when he’d been focused on foreign work, and mostly kept it up ever since. He hadn’t been to an in-person sparring gym in over a year, though, despite Ava nagging him about picking it up again.

His fake opponent came back in with a flurry of strikes. Asim bobbed and weaved through most, but one caught him on the temple. The jolt hit with a familiar buzz, momentarily disabling his avatar. Fortunately, the glancing nature of the blow let him block just in time to stop the next haymaker.

He flicked his eyes down toward his opponent’s belly as bait, then swung a hook toward the face instead. The bot barely managed to block it, and he opened himself up too much in the process. There it was. Asim pushed in hard with a series of hits and landed a haymaker of his own. That rocked him enough for Asim to pile on with a few more until the system flagged the knockout.

Asim stepped back, chest heaving for air, then leaned forward and rested his hands on his knees.

Besides being good for health, this was a useful distraction. His main case had stalled, and part of him wondered if the work he and his team were doing on it even mattered. Ever since the newsroom incident, the FBI, CIA, DHS, NSA, and multiple DoD organizations including his own, were all trying to find Jade. Being a supernatural terrorist instantly put her at the top of every wanted list in existence.

Whether he did his job well or not, someone else would. The chance that any of what he did would make a difference at this point appeared low, and much of it felt like going through the motions.







Chapter 14





Four Years Earlier


His goals are so small. So tactical. He does not see the grand plan at play here. Nonetheless, I will keep playing his small games, while he unknowingly helps me with the largest game of all.

–TS log 12199, excerpt

“Checkmate,” Sara said. After a long and drawn-out effort, she’d finally secured the endgame against Clare while Marcus watched.

“Well, that means you have to play the little genius,” Clare said with a smile. Marcus, nine years old now, rubbed his hands together maniacally and cackled, pretending to be a supervillain. A breeze blew through his messy brown hair.

Clare looked at the chessboard and began resetting it with her mind. She had graduated to third tier six months ago but hadn’t been assigned a mission yet. And while she was still one of the weakest members of Class C in terms of raw telekinetic power, her precision had come a long way.

Sara watched how she picked up the pieces and couldn’t help but be enthralled. Clare was always happy to teach, but there was a lot to learn just by observing how she handled her foci.

Elegant and smooth, the shifting pieces resembled a ballroom dance. A telekineticist only had two independent foci with which they could move objects simultaneously, though Clare made it seem like more. Each focus could be subdivided and used on multiple objects at once, but every object affected by the same focus had to receive the same force—same magnitude, same direction—and the mind had to be trained to hold all of them in its awareness at the same time.

Once a telekineticist mastered those basics and reached tier two, the higher tiers were about power, precision, and numbers. Stronger telekineticists could throw heavier objects with more velocity, more precise ones could manipulate objects with greater dexterity, and some learned to vastly expand the number of objects they could control at a time.

Fallon scored the highest in all three categories, as the sole tier five telekineticist in Dr. Stallard’s ranking system now. She even had enough power to do telekinetic blasts, where she’d widen the tip of a focus and push everything in an area rather than grip and move them independently, despite how energy-inefficient that technique was.

Clare was an outlier, which made her so fascinating to watch in action. She had the second-weakest telekinetic power in the class, with only Sara below her, and sat on the low end of tier three. But her other metrics now ranked near the top of the class, alongside the tier four telekineticists: Maria, Jolce, and Zarina. Clare could lift nearly a dozen light objects and manipulate them with more precision than most. One of Dr. Stallard’s baseline tests for this measured how many seconds it took to mentally set up the pieces on a chessboard.

Another of Clare’s tricks, which only a few in their class possessed, was called “dynamic inclusions and exclusions” by researchers. It meant she could increase or decrease the size of a focus group of objects without resetting the whole thing. If she held three pawns in the air with one focus, moving them together in unison, she could mentally release one pawn and continue moving the remaining two in unison without missing a beat. Or, she could add a fourth pawn to the group, and it would seamlessly start moving in unison with the rest.

Besides Clare, only the upper-tier telekineticists could do that reliably. Clare’s blend of precision, object count, and dynamic inclusions and exclusions gave her the third-quickest chessboard setup time on record after Fallon and Maria.

“That was so fast!” Marcus said as Clare finished the board.

“You know how I learned?” she asked, glancing first at Marcus and then at Sara.

“No, how?” Marcus asked.

“Water. It’s always water. Helps you see the world more clearly.”

Marcus stared at Clare blankly.

“How so?” Sara asked. It had been two years since Clare showed her that hot water was more impactful than researchers realized at early-stage power training. Emmett had even said that if the facility raised another class of telekineticists, he’d push to use the technique from the start.

“Let me show you this too, now that I know it works.” Clare concentrated on her drinking cup and lifted the water out of it in one floating blob. Marcus’s eyes went wide.

“How many objects is a blob of water?” Clare asked rhetorically. “I mean, technically any object consists of a gazillion atoms, but we’re not moving the atoms individually. It all comes down to how the mind categorizes things and how the atomic bonds play together. From there, the subconscious can help with the details as we shape our foci to hold things, like how we don’t have to think about each muscle in our legs as we walk. Working with water and coming to appreciate its flexibility helped me learn to control a larger number of discrete objects.” She floated the water blob around, mentally broke it into separate smaller blobs, then put it back into her cup one blob at a time. She flung the last small blob at Marcus’s nose and laughed.

“Hey!” he said, giggling and rubbing his face dry.

“For precision and numbers, telekinesis mainly comes down to how many separate things you can hold in your mind at once without disrupting your concentration on any of them,” Clare summarized.

“And for power?” Marcus asked.

“Training, mostly. One step at a time. And talent, or however well the creation process worked on our brains, I suppose.” Clare tapped her right temple. “Like your little genius brain. Now, go avenge my honor against Sara.”

Clare switched places with Marcus, and he opened against Sara by advancing one of his pawns.

“Give me some tips here,” Sara said to Clare. “Let’s try to two-vs-one him for a change.”

“Hey, you’re the one who beat me. You’re on your own,” Clare said with a smile. “Oh, look. Bronn gathered a bunch of squirrels again.”

Sara and Marcus glanced over. Across the field, Bronn sat under a tree. Six squirrels were playing around in front of him, and he held out a nut to one of them. It came closer and closer, hesitantly, and snatched the nut from his fingers.

“It’s such a nice morning,” Sara said, looking around at the crisp blue autumn sky. The sun warmed her skin, and the breeze had briefly gone still. “I wish they let us spend more time out here.”

They were on facility grounds, which sprawled over more than five thousand flat acres of grassy and forested area, with a razor wire fence and plenty of security cameras, sensors, and drones around the perimeter. The wide four-story main building stood at the center, while smaller buildings and a runway dotted the rest of the facility grounds.

Decades ago, the facility supposedly had another government purpose, and several thousand people had worked here. It’d been abandoned for economic reasons, and Dr. Stallard with his original patron, General Stolguard, had repurposed it for their ends with a workforce totaling just over one thousand.

That made it feel like a half-empty prison. Sara had never been allowed to leave, and a tracker chip in the back of her neck let the security team monitor her location. The Atlantic Ocean lay less than ten miles to the east, and yet she’d never seen it. So close, and yet so far.

Not all the subjects viewed it that way, but at least they got to travel frequently. And they earned more perks and status by completing missions.

Sara gazed over at Bronn again, still playing with the squirrels, and wondered why he hadn’t snuck away while on assignment. Most of the subjects liked their military work, but Bronn had a disdain for violence, despite being so capable of delivering it. She always partly expected him to find a way to remove his tracker chip and vanish while on a mission. Maybe they’d presume him dead, when really, he’d be free. Whenever he left on one of his deployments, she always made sure to say goodbye in case it was the last time, either because of his death or his freedom.

“Saaaara,” Marcus said. “You’re taking forever. It’s your turn.”

“Sorry,” she said, reaching out to ruffle his hair, while he pretended to dislike it. She shifted to sit cross-legged, returned her attention to the game, and unsurprisingly lost within five minutes.

According to Damien, Dr. Stallard aimed for two different intelligence levels among the subjects. Class B and C had both been designed to have intelligence levels of about one or two standard deviations above average. That was what General Stolguard had initially requested.

“Any more than that, and a soldier is too smart for his own good,” was how the general had apparently put it to Dr. Stallard, who’d later told Damien during one of their chess matches.

But Dr. Stallard had boosted intelligence as far as he could for Class D, reaching five or more standard deviations above normal for Rudolph, Damien, and Marcus, the three who’d made it to speaking age.

Speaking of generals, here they are. A small jet appeared on the horizon. It was likely the flight carrying General Price and others to watch today’s reclassification test.

“We should get ready,” Sara said. All members of Class B and C had graduated as of six months ago, but the reclassification tests still ran twice a year to measure ongoing improvements into higher tiers, and for spec-ops officers to observe the subject pool for mission assignments. A few of the youngest subjects hadn’t been selected for any missions yet, including Sara and Clare.

Clare sighed and got to her feet.

“What is it?” Sara asked.

“The more I think about it, I don’t want to be picked,” Clare said. “I’d rather stay here and work on things. Especially since Jolgen and most others are away a lot now. It’s more peaceful here than it used to be.”

Sara was dumbfounded. Clare was nineteen years old and Sara eighteen, and they’d still never left. They hadn’t gone more than a mile in any direction from this spot, all within facility grounds.

“Don’t you want to see the world?” Sara asked. “This is our chance.”

“I do,” Clare said. “But not in combat.”

“I think it would be worth it, at least once. Just to see other people, see another place.”

Clare shrugged. “Well, it’s not like we have much choice in the matter either way.”

On that, she was right.



Fallon sat high on the facility roof with Jax, waiting to see how long it would take someone to find them. Everyone was supposed to be down on the grassy area in preparation for Price’s arrival, and of course the other subjects had done as they’d been told, sheep that they were.

She’d only been back from her latest mission for two weeks, and already the place felt suffocating. It didn’t make sense for them to have to keep coming back here between deployments, as though they were in some stupid adult daycare.

At least the wind felt refreshing up here on the roof.

“How the hell does he do that thing with the squirrels?” Jax asked, watching Bronn below. “They even let him pet them sometimes.”

Fallon shrugged. “By sitting still for like an hour. Apparently if you’re as boring as a tree, they start to treat you like one.”

Jax chuckled and caressed her back. “Well, I like your company better anyway.”

The pleasant feeling was ruined by one of the access doors opening, its telltale rusty squeak coming from about a hundred yards behind them. She sighed. “Looks like you’re going to win the bet. Again.”

“Told ya. They’re getting faster.”

He removed his touch and started to stand, but Fallon put her hand on his shoulder. “Wait,” she whispered. “Let’s see if they actually check.” She’d chosen this spot to sit for a reason; a small rooftop water tower blocked the view from the closest access door.

But soon enough, the sound of multiple footsteps drew closer. Jax smirked.

Fallon rolled her eyes and stood up. It was inevitable that they’d be found due to their tracker chips, but she’d thought the security team would have trouble figuring out which floor they were on, even as they knew the horizontal coordinates. Seemed that wasn’t the case. It was still useful to test their limits a bit, though.

She stepped out from around the water tower, and Jax followed.

“Again?” said Raphael, the facility’s head of security, with a sigh. His laser rifle was casually pointed down in a non-threatening way. Four more guards with regular rifles stood behind him, all calm. “Roof’s off limits. You both know I have to report these instances to Dr. Stallard.”

Such a good, loyal dog you are. “Consider it my contribution to keep you guys on the payroll,” Fallon said with a mock salute. She turned and looked southward into the distance, farther than any of them would be able to see. “Price is arriving anyway. We weren’t going to miss the party, obviously.”

Raphael squinted and gazed out toward the horizon, trying and clearly failing to see the general’s plane. She strolled toward him. As she got close, Raphael looked back at her, and she slowly slid her finger along the aluminum casing of his laser rifle while meeting his eyes. He and his fellow armored dorks tensed up but didn’t do anything. She continued past him toward the access door, putting them in a position to follow.



Sara did her best to remain calm as she and the rest of the graduates of classes B and C—those not currently on missions—stood in line within the enclosed sports and testing field while General Price and Dr. Stallard walked past, examining them. A cluster of military officers trailed behind them, and along the walls more than four dozen guards kept watch.

General Price was an athletic man in his early sixties with a shaved head and face. What really stood out were his piercing blue eyes, aggressive white eyebrows, and impeccable posture. It was even harder to keep eye contact with him than it was with Dr. Stallard, since his face seemed perpetually carved into anger.

Price had been visiting twice a year as far back as her earliest memories; he had been Dr. Stallard’s military financier since his early forties as a lieutenant colonel, almost twenty years ago. Before that, it was General Stolguard who’d provided Dr. Stallard’s initial financing, starting about four decades ago.

Some subjects stood at attention, as they were supposed to. Others had their arms crossed. Jax rested his hands behind his back, his stance more casual. The ones with unique skills tended to be the most informal, since they knew they were irreplaceable. But Fallon stood out most of all, crossing her arms and levitating twelve inches off the ground, bobbing slightly up and down, the air chilly enough around her to make her breath visible. The extra height off the floor put her at eye level with the men of Class B.

She always has to stand out, Sara thought. Using telekinesis on one’s own body was known to be difficult: you had to spread the force evenly to avoid risking injury, it supposedly felt disorienting to move with your own pushes and pulls, and holding the body’s weight aloft drained energy quickly. Fallon could do it with ease, and Zarina sometimes did it briefly. Both Maria and Jolce could probably do it as well.

“The rest of the laggards are in now, eh?” Price said as he walked past Clare. “We’ve got the full pick of the litter.”

“Depending on funding levels, we’d like to do another three classes to expand the pool,” Dr. Stallard said.

The general nodded absently, looking at Sara, who stood at the end of Class C’s line. “You get any better yet?” he asked, stopping to turn toward her. He already had their category scores on the printout in his hand, so he must’ve been asking that as a personality test.

“My telekinetic precision is improving, sir,” she said, forcing herself to meet his icy eyes. “But I continue to emphasize marksmanship, given my severe power limitations. I’m eager to find a point of contribution.”

Price nodded, seemingly finding the answer acceptable. Having reached the end of the lines, he turned around to address the room. “The next mission is a series of assassinations in Iran. A multi-monther, in deep.” Part of why the subjects were never allowed to leave except for missions was because they were constantly exposed to top-secret black-ops details, including those about foreign and domestic assassinations. And because their bodies were government property. “We need it quiet, so this is a Class C job. With C3 and C6 already deployed elsewhere, I’ll take C5, C10, and . . . C14.”

Fallon, Dalia, and Clare. Sara looked over at Clare and saw her jaw tighten.

“With all due respect, sir,” Clare said, “I’m not sure I’m the right choice for this mission.”

“You can say that again,” Fallon added.

Dr. Stallard shot Fallon an angry glance for the interjection in front of the general. She shrugged.

Price cocked one of his aggressive white eyebrows, his intense blue eyes turning toward Clare. “Oh?” He held the printout in front of him and made a show of reading it. “Unless I’m mistaken—and perhaps I am at my age—it says your precision scores are quite high. That’s our key variable for hit jobs. We’ve had a rather narrow pool of your type, so you’ll be a useful contribution, soldier.”

Clare swallowed and nodded. “Yes, sir.”

Sara’s stomach clenched. Clare didn’t want to kill anyone in the first place, yet her first mission would be a string of assassinations deep in Iran? Fallon would likely handle most of the kills, with Dalia and Clare mainly there as backup, but even so . . .

“If I may speak up, sir,” Sara said, “I’m a capable sniper and trained infiltrator. I would volunteer to replace C14 if you deem it suitable.”

Price walked over and stared down at her, eye to eye. “I like the enthusiasm, soldier, but can you choke someone to death yet? Or stop their heart?”

“No, sir,” Sara admitted. “Not with my mind, at least. But I can provide sniper cover and scouting support.” It wasn’t that she wanted to kill, but rather that she wanted to go somewhere. And if she could get Clare out of the mission, then all the better. Clare wasn’t a killer. Sara could be, if she had to. Or so she hoped.

“This is an urban mission, soldier,” Price said. “We want the deaths to look natural. We’re sending three Class C operatives who can deliver that, for redundancy, with some experienced infiltrators to assist them, who already have on-the-ground experience in Iran. They don’t need a marginal super-soldier on this one, but as soon as we have a need for that capacity, I’ll let you know.”

A marginal super-soldier. That was how he viewed her. Worthless, in other words, like both Fallon and Jolce had told her on more than one occasion.

“C5, C10, and C14 will report to Colonel McClellon here for the details of the operation,” Price said, nodding toward a military man in his forties. Then he looked at the doctor. “Stallard, join me for a drink in your office.”







Chapter 15



Jade ascended the stairs from the underground Pentagon metro station.

That was what the media called her, anyway. Jade. She used to care about her chosen name, but not anymore. As far as she was concerned, they could call her whatever they wanted now. Number, name, whichever. After all that had happened, she preferred thinking of her old self as dead.

Her hair was bound tightly into a bun, she had Jitters’s large-framed sunglasses covering the top half of her face, and she wore a medical mask over her mouth and nose. A knee-length coat, fit for the autumn weather, concealed her armored vest. Cameras were all over this world, and everyone was searching for her, so she had to shift her appearance where she could.

Now that she’d reached her target, the cameras weren’t the problem. The guards were. She stripped off her mask to look less suspicious as she approached the main entrance.



“All I’m saying,” Asim said, “is that I think we should—”

A blast went off somewhere on the lower floors, sending a vibration through the room. He stopped speaking as both Flanagan’s and Ava’s eyes went wide, as did the eyes of the three advisors to the Army’s Chief of Staff whom Asim had been briefing.

They all stared at him, as if time itself had frozen. A tightness spread through his chest, and his throat went dry. “Go tell our people to get under their desks,” he said. “Don’t go into the corridors.”

He rushed to grab his laser rifle, then strode toward the doors that led out into the corridor as he put his arms through the loops of the energy pack.

“Colonel. Asim,” Flanagan said, raising his voice, “You can’t be serious. They have a guard division for that.”

“I might be able to reason with her,” Asim said. “I can’t do nothing.”

Flanagan shook his head. “We don’t even know if—”

“It’s her. Almost certainly. Assume it is unless we learn differently.”

Asim peeked into the corridor and spotted two women running. From the other direction came distant shouting. Most people in the building were civilians and would be panicking right now. He wasn’t sure if he was lucky or cursed to have been in the Pentagon today instead of back in ACI headquarters.

“Sir, I can help,” Ava said from behind. She already had her concealed pistol out.

“I know you can. But please, stay here,” Asim said. “That’s an order. We’ve only got one of these anyway.” He powered on the laser rifle.

Despite the Pentagon’s massive size, Asim knew it was possible to walk between any two points in under seven minutes, thanks to its design. And unfortunately, he also knew that security at the military headquarters was weaker than what one might expect against a threat like Jade.

Sure, the building itself was a fortress of security. Made of concrete, steel, and even Kevlar, the walls were resilient against most attacks. The windows were blast resistant. The airspace above was strictly controlled, and nearby military bases could respond rapidly in the event of an outright foreign invasion. But it was ultimately an office building, and the hundreds of guards who worked here were civilian personnel, like regular police officers trained to deal with normal threats.

One person breaking in, who could stop bullets and throw cars? With plenty of walls for cover? He pictured the scene outside of the news building, where she’d killed all those cops and ripped apart the street in seconds. How many waves of guards would die here today?

Instinctively, he rushed toward the outer ring and down to the third floor, where most VIP offices were located. Then he thought more consciously. What would she be going after here, specifically?

The Secretary of Defense on the third floor? The Joint Chiefs on the second? They were located on the middle floors for security purposes. Or was Jade just trying to cause as much mayhem as possible to draw attention?

A second impact of some sort blasted in the distance, and he dashed that way, feeling another vibration rumble through the floor under his feet.

Moments later, the broadcast system sounded. “Active shooter alert,” said the automated female voice. “Personnel on the first floor should calmly exit the building. Personnel on the second through fifth floors should remain in their offices with the doors locked. Shelter in place. This is not a drill. I repeat, active shooter alert.”

That likely meant she was on the second floor. Gunfire echoed up from a stairwell, so he rushed down the stairs toward the sound. Two guards with pistols stood at the intersection between the stairwell and the second-floor corridor, a young woman and a young man. As Asim approached, the man reached out his palm, tense.

“Stop,” the male guard said. “Go back upstairs to your office, sir.”

“I’m Colonel Asim Rahal, the deputy commander of Army Counterintelligence, ACI. What’s happening?”

The female guard peeked into the corridor. Gunshots and yelling sounded from deep down the hall, and she turned back, pale. “It’s that witch. She’s on this floor somewhere.” The woman eyed Asim’s laser rifle, then glanced down at the badge on his belt. “Official policy for floors two through five is to shelter in place unless you’re part of the Pentagon Force Protection Agency, sir.”

“Well, I’m going to go ahead and ignore official policy today,” Asim said. “I’m in charge of her case. What’s the state of the floor?”

“I don’t know, sir. We’re escorting people to safety if they’re in the corridors. The main force is moving to protect the SecDef and the Joint Chiefs. And to drop the attacker.”

Asim nodded and crept out into the corridor, laser rifle ready. More gunfire and screams echoed ahead.



Jade crushed their heads, several at a time, with her right focus, her right fist at her side making a gripping motion each time. As she walked down the corridor, the instant she saw anyone with a gun, their head got crushed. Instantly. Again, and again.

For those who managed to get a shot off first, she used her left focus to maintain a high-energy outward-facing shield around herself, stopping bullets before they struck.

She left behind a sea of red as she moved along the outer ring of the building. It was a shame, but there was no time to waste.



With his laser rifle, Asim crept down a corridor filled with dozens of guards’ bodies, their heads reduced to bloody pulp and bone shards. The rest stop scene had been disgusting, but this was out of a nightmare. Literal streams of blood flowed down the shiny floors of the Pentagon’s halls, reflecting ceiling lights in a grotesque sheen. An unnatural chill hung in the air.

He passed two clerks huddled together against a wall, red-stained and in shock but otherwise unharmed.

“How long?” Asim asked softly.

One stared blankly at the floor as if she hadn’t even heard. The other hesitated, then met his eyes. “May . . . maybe a minute.”

Asim nodded and looked forward. Jade appeared to be heading toward the Joint Chiefs’ office suite. Hopefully they’d evacuated, but the strike had happened so fast, and with a security directive to shelter in place, they might have barricaded in with a retinue of guards. A gut-wrenching thought. He clicked the button to charge his rifle’s capacitor bank and set his finger on the trigger.

Several jogging footsteps sounded behind him. Turning to look, he nodded to an approaching set of four heavily armed guards, three men and a woman, all with determination on their faces. They said nothing, trying to be quiet, and fell in behind him.

A burst of gunfire erupted ahead, close, and a loud bang rang out, echoing through the halls, followed by sounds of shattering glass, grinding metal, and more screams. That was where the Joint Chiefs’ office suites were, with what was likely a concentrated force.

Asim reached a corner, took a quiet breath, and peeked around it. He pulled right back as he glimpsed her about fifty feet away.

Jade stood amid piles of bloody bodies, the floor slick with red. She wore similar attire as last time but with a different coat over her armored vest, and her hair was pulled back into a tight bun, with long black strands starting to come loose. She faced a grand doorway that led to the office suite of General Price—the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Around her, alongside the ruined bodies, lay a series of twisted metal frames from what had once been blast-resistant glass doors in the corridor, serving as an interior VIP security checkpoint.

Asim turned back toward the guards behind him, widened his eyes, and put out his hand to signal them to stop. Not a sound, he tried to make clear.

Jade’s appearance differed from how she’d looked at the news station. Thinner. Gaunt, even. But still the same person, with the same scars. Something was wrong. And somehow, that made her more threatening, not less. A starving, haggard lioness was more dangerous than a healthy one. She was speckled in drops of her victims’ blood. Her boots were covered in it.

This was his chance. Hopefully she couldn’t control photons. If she could, he would die, simple as that. As he took a deep breath, his daughter’s face flashed in his mind. He should’ve called her the other day on the train. Now look at this mess.

He exhaled and stepped out to shoot. A spike of adrenaline hit him, and time subjectively slowed down. As he took a half-second to aim, Jade glanced his way, and her right hand started to move. He fired prematurely, prioritizing speed over accuracy. All the energy stored in the rifle’s capacitor bank discharged into a powerful, invisible laser blast.

A sharp crack split the air.

Jade staggered back and gasped as a jet of golden sparks burned out from her right shoulder, straight through her armor. Then she bared her teeth with a savage glare and clenched her fist. Asim had already started ducking back behind the corner after the shot, and he felt the air implode right next to his head as he lost sight of her. There was no other way to describe it.

After a few seconds, a delayed growl of pain or frustration echoed from around the corner, and the air filled with the scent of ozone. Asim took several silent steps back and crouched low to change his position. He wasn’t sure how precisely her telekinesis could strike from around corners, without a sightline.

“Jade!” he shouted, clicking the button with his thumb to recharge the rifle’s capacitor bank. “I’m Asim, from the opera. Surrender yourself and I’ll do everything in my power to get to the bottom of this and help you if I can!”

Silence. Then the sound of wet bootsteps coming toward him. Fuck.

He raised his rifle, ready to fire as soon as the first glimpse of her came around the corner. The guards behind him did the same. But then more gunfire sounded from near Jade’s position, followed by an explosion of rubble and screams, rattling the floor itself. A squad had likely attacked her from the other direction, and she was fighting back.

Asim forced himself to step up and peek around the corner again to see if he could land a second shot, but as soon as he did, the barrel of his laser rifle crushed in on itself from a strong invisible force, rendering the gun useless. Nearly at the same time, a jolting upward force on his chest pulled him off the floor and around the corner like a rag doll, whiplashing his head back.

Jade stood in the corridor, one arm outstretched, her face locked on him. His body flew toward her. Part of the ceiling had collapsed in the corridor behind her; she’d ripped down concrete and steel to crush an oncoming guard squad and block the path with rubble. Debris still clattered down the pile, settling. Those predatory eyes studied him as he drew closer to her, then widened. He dropped to the floor, prone, released from her grip. Gunfire rang out overhead. Two guards who’d been with him were firing, their rounds pinging uselessly off an invisible barrier around her body. Then, both of their helmets ruptured into a crimson spray.

Asim clenched his jaw, furious. There were still two more hiding around the corner, unless they’d already fled. “Stay back!” he shouted, heart pounding. “Wait for backup.”

He tried to stand but was struck by an invisible blow to his chest, knocking the wind out of him. He gasped for air on his hands and knees, but his lungs wouldn’t take it in. Behind him, the crashing sound of concrete and the grinding sound of steel filled the corridor, and the floor rattled beneath him from the impact. Hopefully the other two guards had fled in time. She was ripping down part of the ceiling to block the direction he’d come from, too. With this, she’d be able to go through the doors here and assault General Price’s office suite without being flanked by more waves of guards from either side of the corridor.

As the sound and vibration of crashing concrete and steel came to a pause, Asim finally managed to take in a gasp of air and rise to his knees. Smelling burnt flesh, he slowly raised his eyes.

Jade stared down at him, her shoulder scorched, with a look of hesitation on her face. Then her expression hardened, and an invisible blow struck him on the side of the head, knocking him back down.

Through his blurry vision, he watched Jade walk away from him toward the doorway. One of the bloody bodies under the collapsed rubble on the far side moaned and stirred. She paused, glanced at the squirming guard, and crushed his head even though he was no longer a threat. Then she turned back to the doorway.



Jade pushed, and the thick wooden double doors splintered inward, broke into several pieces, and flew with fatal speed into the office. She kept her second focus ready to block any gunfire that might come, and as expected, some did.

She crushed one guard’s head, then two more. They fired from behind desks, tables, and chairs in the grand office. A fourth ducked back behind a desk before she could get a mental grip on him, so she pushed the desk with enough force to crush him against the concrete wall instead.

Stepping inside, she levitated a table, turned it on its side, and put it against the door frame she’d come through. In doing so, she revealed a young woman, likely some sort of secretary, covered in blood and weeping next to the headless body of one of the guards.

“Price,” Jade said, raising her voice.

Quiet, except for the helicopter blades outside and the stifled sobs of the woman. Jade’s right shoulder flared in pain, masked only by the adrenaline flowing through her veins, which wouldn’t last much longer. This had taken too long already.

After a few seconds, the general stood from behind the room’s main desk. The tall, imperialistic-looking bald man, with his blue eyes as piercing as ever. He seemed defiant and tense, rather than afraid.

“All this for me?” he asked. “Stallard’s right. You’ve lost your damn mind.”



Disoriented, Asim crawled through the muck past several bodies toward the doorway of the Vice Chairman’s office suite. He could stand, but he didn’t want footsteps giving him away. As he reached it, he found a large round table blocking most of his path, but could hear through it and peek in at the bottom corner, where the round table didn’t fully plug the wide, rectangular doorframe.

“Are they all still at the Stolguard facility?” Jade asked. “Or have they relocated?”

“Why should I tell you anything?” General Price responded.

“Because I can kill you slowly and gruesomely, one question at a time, if you don’t.”

Price eyed her and somehow stood up a little straighter than he already had been. “There’s no need for that. Yes, they’re still at the facility. And they’ve recalled more from the field to defend it. It’s impenetrable now.”

Asim slowly unholstered his pistol, trying to remain as noiseless as possible, but Jade glanced back toward the doorway, straight at him through the gap. The hair on his neck rose.

“Stand down, soldier,” Price said. “It won’t do either of us any good.”

Asim nodded slightly, his pulse racing.

Jade’s unblinking glare lingered on his face. “Throw it away,” she said.

Asim tossed his pistol down the hall.

Jade looked back toward Price. “Who else knows about the program details?” she asked, her voice low and tense.

“Mostly senior officers at the Special Operations Command,” Price said. “SOCOM.”

“Do you know what Stallard is doing with Class D?”

“The computer hookups? That’s Stallard’s pet project. I let him keep it in exchange for his other output. Class D hasn’t had military applications yet.”

“It isn’t meant for military applications. It’s worse, and closer to completion than you think. What he’s doing could disrupt the world. It needs to be stopped, or people need to be warned how to prepare for it.”

“More of you are delusional than I thought,” Price said.

“It’ll turn all your weapon systems against you. Against everyone. Pull funding from the facility, let the subjects go free if they want to, and have Congress review what’s happened with Class D.”

“You’re right. Will do, soldier,” Price said.

Jade paused. Even from behind, Asim could tell she was breathing heavily. The back of her shoulder had a burn hole in it; the laser blast had gone straight through. The fact that she was still standing was inhuman. “You’re lying,” she said after several seconds. Her voice deepened further, almost like a growl.

“Of course I am,” Price said. “You think I can just magically disappear a trillion-dollar program? We don’t negotiate with terrorists, and for every one of us you kill, there’s another—”

His head imploded into a bloody mess, splattering the windows behind him, and his body fell to the floor with a wet thud.



Jade scanned the ruined office. That secretary was still cowering in the corner, and that so-called detective was lingering back in the corridor. They’d make useful witnesses for what they’d heard.

She pushed against one of the office windows with enough force to break the blast-resistant glass, shattering it outward. Its shards rained down to the parking lot below as she stepped closer, shielding herself.

Within seconds, the sound of rifle shots echoed through the air, and several high-powered sniper rounds streaked toward her at the window. She blocked them with her left focus and pushed her eyes to their limit, scanning the parking lot for the source. She spotted the sniper far away behind a car, a glint of light giving him away, and crushed his head with her right focus.

The helicopter hovering overhead pivoted, and she kept an eye on it while also looking for other snipers. There weren’t any more of them on this side, but six security drones thrummed throughout the parking lot within sight. She crushed them all. Then she planted both of her bracers on the ground below and jumped down, using one of her foci to pull up on her body, slowing her descent and landing safely.

The helicopter’s heavy machine gun opened fire.

Rather than let her shield keep getting pounded, she released it and instead reached out to blast with her right focus. A narrow beam of force lanced toward the helicopter, shredding the hail of fire and hammering the gun. At the same time, with her left focus, she tore the helicopter from the sky. It crashed into the parking lot like an explosive meteor, sending a light through the sky and a shockwave through the ground under her feet. The air turned frigid, and frost spread outward in a widening radius along the asphalt.

A roar of fighter jets thundered in the distance. Then another roar seconds later, rumbling from the opposite direction. There’d be an unassailable amount of metal in the sky within minutes, coming to the Pentagon’s defense.

With her bracers still planted, she used one of her foci to lift herself by multiple points on her body and fly horizontally like a bullet, headfirst, arms tucked tight, skimming the building’s side, accelerating as she went. With her other focus, she ripped several cars from the parking lot. Metal groaned as they surged toward her. Once they got close, she used dynamic inclusion to hold the cars with the same focus she held her own body with, locking them into formation with her, using them to shield her open side as she flew.

She rounded one of the Pentagon’s five corners and saw the metro station up ahead. More sniper rounds echoed through the air, punching into her car-shield with sharp, metallic pops.

A police blockade had set up at the metro entrance, so as she got close, she slowed herself down and released the cars to let them careen ahead of her. Guards scattered, diving for cover as the cars crashed through their blockade at deadly speed, mowing down anyone too slow. Screams filled the air.

She soared past what little remained of them, down the steps to the metro, then entered the underground train track tunnel itself. She released and replanted her bracers to avoid straining their length from where she’d started.

An oncoming train sped toward her. She hugged the far-right wall of the tunnel and kept flying. Concrete sped by inches from her right shoulder, train metal inches from her left. After it passed, she veered back to the center and reaccelerated, eyes forward, breath ragged.

Her adrenaline was gone. Agony radiated from her shoulder, dizzying and raw. Every tiny motion of her arm caused her vest to scrape against the burn, lighting her nerves on fire anew. Even her head throbbed now, from so much use of her powers.

She clenched her jaw and focused, then laughed out loud. Not out of joy or excitement, but to distract herself from the pain. There was more work to do, and she couldn’t rest here.







Part II





The Tapestry








Chapter 16





Three Years Earlier


The generals need to see spectacles from time to time to keep them engaged, and to keep the money flowing toward more important things.

–TS log 12453, excerpt

Damien went to the cafeteria for breakfast before General Price’s visit. As usual, several tables sat empty, since most subjects were away on fieldwork, and far fewer guards and researchers ate breakfast here than lunch.

One table had Maria, Dalia, Clare, and Romulus. A second had Quinn with a few members of Class B. Jolce sat alone, reading manga as she often did. A few other tables held off-duty guards and researchers. Sara was unfortunately in the firing range; otherwise Damien would have eaten with her.

He slid his tray onto an empty table and pulled out a chair. The lights in here were blinding, and he still felt dizzy from yesterday’s tests. It was surprising he had any appetite at all.

“Hey! Over here,” Clare called, gesturing to a single empty seat beside her.

Damien sighed. He liked Clare, of course, though her energy level could be overwhelming at times. And Maria was fine. But Romulus and Dalia had never been comfortable around him. Many subjects felt uneasy around Class D, and some of it was probably deserved; Damien wasn’t exactly the best at relating to most of them. Sara understood him better than the others, and yet he could tell he alienated even her at times.

Still, he walked over, and Clare lit up with excitement. The other three just kept eating, but Clare rested her fork on her tray.

“I’m glad you could join us. I thought you were going to eat in your room. Sara said she would bring you snacks.”

Damien slid into his seat and scanned the table. “I told her I was recovered enough to come myself, so she could still get her morning session in the range before Price arrives.”

Dalia, with her short-cropped black hair, looked up from her food. “She’s obsessed. She thinks better marksmanship will get her into the field, but it won’t.”

Clare frowned. “We don’t know that for sure. She’s being constructive about it. All anyone can do is take—”

“One step at a time, I know,” Dalia interrupted. She looked down at her plate again and took another bite. Romulus chuckled.

“She’s training as best as she can,” Clare said with a rare edge to her voice.

Dalia nodded. “I know. Her range scores are already up there with Class B, somehow. Good for her. That’s not the issue. The telekinesis is. No getting around that.”

Romulus still looked amused. His brown hair draped past his chin as he glanced around the cafeteria, and he brushed some of it back behind one ear.

“What?” Clare asked.

“I’m just picturing that time Carter nearly flattened her. None of you ladies bother to spar anymore, except Dal here sometimes, so Sara tried to train with some Class B guys. That lasted all of thirty seconds once she got in the ring with Carter. So, she went to Raphael and asked to spar some of his normie guards. She fights a few of them each week in the gym now, mostly men. Beats the shit out of some of them, too.”

“Still won’t get her into the field. What’s she going to do, punch drones?” Dalia said.

“She fucked you up last time you boxed her, darling,” Romulus said.

Dalia glared back. “You know what I mean. She’s barely more than a regular soldier. They’re not going to risk losing her body and all its genes in enemy territory. They only send in our kind when we’ll actually make a difference. It’s not like I’m saying it’s her fault. Just reality.”

Damien thought for a moment. It would be socially optimal to change the subject. “I wonder if anything will change, now that General Price has been promoted to the Joint Chiefs,” he offered as a conversation piece. The news had been circulating around the facility.

“I doubt it,” Maria said after she finished chewing a bite. “At least for us. But him moving from SOCOM to the Joint Chiefs probably ties this facility closer to the President and shields us from the few generals who contest our existence. He’ll probably bring his SOCOM replacement today. I heard it’s General Rodriguez. Supposedly Atlas Rionz is coming too.”

Romulus shrugged. “Yeah, we don’t work with the generals in the field anyway. We deal with spec-ops colonels and their subordinates.” He eyed Dalia’s tray and gestured toward an untouched piece of sausage with his fork. “You’re not going to eat that?”

“No, go ahead,” she said, and caressed the back of his shoulder. He speared the sausage with his fork and brought it to his plate, then leaned over and pecked a kiss onto her cheek.

According to what Sara recently told him, Romulus and Dalia had started dating a month ago. Sara had been amused when reminding him that Romulus had dated nearly a third of Class C by now. Damien wouldn’t normally track such things, but her keeping him informed certainly helped for social situations like this.

There was only one woman Damien desired in that way, and she was in the firing range right now. But he needed some sense of the future before pursuing anything like a relationship. What could he even offer her, stuck in a prison as they were? He had agonizing experiments with Thane every week, spent days in bed afterward, and found it increasingly hard to interact with others. He needed to understand where his future lay. Would he die like Rudolph? If not, what would success even look like for his class? Class B and Class C both led to fieldwork. Class D only led deeper into machines.

“Did you hear me?” Clare asked, her hand already out, touching his shoulder.

Damien blinked and looked up. Had he zoned out again? “No, sorry. Can you repeat your prior statement?”

Romulus rolled his eyes, and Dalia glared at him for doing so, suggesting that she wanted him to conceal his social frustration for Damien’s sake. That was nice of her. Maria just watched Damien with quiet curiosity.

“Of course,” Clare said, patient as ever. “I said General Price’s event is in ten minutes. Want to walk there with us? We’re going to pick up Marcus and head there now.”

“Thank you,” Damien said. “But I’ll stop by the range and get Sara, then meet you there.” He smiled in a way that he hoped looked warm enough.



Sara stood in line in the enclosed sports and testing field with the other ten subjects of Class B and Class C who weren’t out on missions. General Price, General Rodriguez, and a group of other military officers and government administrators observed. Damien stood off to the side watching as well; he had accompanied her here from the firing range. Marcus stood next to him.

For the first time, a famous tech mogul named Atlas was attending. He wore neither a uniform nor a suit, just a white sweater in a room full of formally dressed VIPs. But what really stood out was his gynoid companion. A robot in the shape of a woman, she was visibly metallic with no fake skin, and she moved with such grace compared to any other bot Sara had seen. She spoke to other people around Atlas charismatically when addressed, her facial expressions shockingly genuine. At several points she outright laughed, and even lightly touched a man’s shoulder once in conversation. Atlas himself spoke little, except with Price and Rodriguez. The gynoid seemed to serve as his assistant, but the lines on her forearms suggested concealed weaponry. A bodyguard too, perhaps?

The gynoid glanced at Sara and smiled, catching her staring. Oops. Sara looked away toward the field. Through her peripheral vision, she could see the gynoid’s gaze linger on her for a few more seconds before returning to Atlas.

These semiannual events were shorter now that all subjects had graduated. Rather than test them all as he used to, Dr. Stallard would just have a single member of each combat class demonstrate their abilities for first-time visitors. This time, it was Maria and Romulus.

Officers had previously used these events to pick subjects for missions, but now that they were familiar with the program, spec-ops officers came whenever they had missions to fill. They never seemed to need Sara, though. She was now the only member of Class B or C who hadn’t been deployed at all.

The frustrating event was ready to wrap up, but then General Price spoke. “I’d like to see a duel between two Class Cs,” he said. “The only duel we’ve ever seen was back when C5 roughed up C17, which doesn’t count.”

Sara cringed.

“That would . . .” Dr. Stallard began, then paused. “A serious duel comes with significant safety concerns,” he continued after a moment. “Both for the subjects and for the audience. Their power levels leave little margin for error.”

“Stallard, we send these soldiers to the worst parts of the world to kill. They live for a little margin of error, don’t you ladies?” Price scanned the subjects, then turned back toward Dr. Stallard. “You’re telling me they can’t whack each other a bit? What’s the dueling rule again? Just take the other off their feet, right? Let’s show Mr. Rionz.”

“I challenge C3,” Jolce announced. The room went silent. Sara looked over at Jolce, feeling her own eyes go wide. That would be epic. Maria and Jolce were the two strongest telekineticists after Fallon, who wasn’t present and whom nobody would dare challenge anyway. Maria had always been considered the second strongest of Class C, but Jolce, Zarina, and Quinn were all close behind, classified alongside Maria in tier four.

Maria looked down to her right at Jolce, annoyance clear on her face. She hated duels. They were standing right next to each other in numbered order, and Maria stood half a head taller. Jolce looked up to her left, meeting Maria’s eyes, and smirked.

Between telekineticists, size didn’t matter. Only their mental powers did. Jolce was a bully, much like Fallon, though less dramatically. Hopefully Maria would win.

Price gestured toward Maria and Jolce and raised his eyebrows at Dr. Stallard, as though he’d just won the argument.

“General, I can’t allow a duel between C3 and C6 on the spot like this. I wouldn’t be able to guarantee the safety of anyone present. Each of them can channel more horsepower than a supercar.”

Price said nothing, just crossed his arms and looked at the doctor with those fierce blue eyes and impossibly aggressive white eyebrows.

Dr. Stallard stared back at Price for a moment, as stone-faced as ever, then glanced toward the line of Class C subjects. “C10 and C14, please step up here.”

Dalia and Clare. Sara shook her head. Dueling was the last thing Clare would want, and Dalia was the more powerful of the two. At least Dalia wasn’t cruel; she wouldn’t play with Clare after winning.

“I have no dispute with Clare, sir,” Dalia said. “We have no reason to duel.”

“That’s precisely why I want you to do so,” Dr. Stallard said. “And as third tiers, your duel will be milder and more contained than one between C3 and C6. Please step out here, twenty yards apart.”

Jolce grinned down the line toward Dalia and Clare. Sara sighed. What a backhanded compliment on Dr. Stallard’s part.

“Yes, sir,” Dalia said, ignoring Jolce and marching out onto the field.

After a moment, Clare followed, looking calmer than Sara expected, given the situation. Dalia was not only stronger at telekinesis and a year older than Clare, she was more competitive, too. She had the second-highest marksmanship score in Class C, and kept up with martial arts better than most of the class. That made her one of the most well-rounded telekinetic soldiers. Not a heavy hitter like Fallon or Maria, but versatile. Comfortable with killing, too. Clare had told Sara all the stories from Iran.

“C3, please come out here to help as well,” Dr. Stallard said. Maria raised her eyebrows, then stepped onto the field without a word.

“The number one goal is to do no serious damage,” Dr. Stallard said, looking at Dalia and then Clare. “Not to each other, not to this room, and especially not to any observers. The second goal is to try to safely knock your opponent to the ground. Do you understand?”

“Yes, sir!” Dalia shouted.

“I do,” Clare said.

“And you, C3. Since you can see their foci, you may intervene if it gets too dangerous.”

“I’ll do my best,” Maria said. “Damage can happen quickly.”

Dr. Stallard sighed and turned back to the audience. “Unfortunately, you won’t be able to see most of the duel, which along with the safety risk is why I don’t typically offer them to observers. Telekineticists can directly see each other’s psionic limbs while we cannot, and they have reflexes that are as fast as cats’. The rest of us will mostly only see the end result.”

“Well, that’s a damn good sales pitch, Doc,” General Rodriguez said. “Let’s let it play out.”

Price smirked and looked over at General Rodriguez and Atlas Rionz.

Sara watched them. So that was Price’s angle? Marketing their abilities?

“Prepare yourselves,” Dr. Stallard said.

Dalia narrowed her eyes, stood straight with her hands clenched into fists at her sides, and planted both of her bracers onto the ground like ethereal legs that only members of Class C could see. Clare bent her knees slightly and kept her palms open, looking more relaxed. Then she planted her bracers, too.

Dr. Stallard held out his hand. “Three . . . Two . . . One . . . Go.”

Dalia shot both of her foci straight toward Clare like twin punches, ethereal arms reaching out nearly as fast as bullets. Sara gritted her teeth. With their power difference, Clare couldn’t block them, and if she were to try, Dalia might push too hard and break through with enough force to injure her. Or worse.

Instead, Clare flicked her palms up and used her two foci to push up hard on both of Dalia’s oncoming foci. Clare ducked into a deep crouch, and Dalia’s two foci glanced upward, flying inches over her head by the time they reached her position.

Quinn gasped. Sara felt her own mouth open in surprise as well. Clare knew she couldn’t block, of course; she’d redirected Dalia’s push slightly upward, which took far less energy. Ducking had minimized how much redirection she’d need to apply, too. It was risky, though—a miscalculation would have resulted in her taking the full unblocked push to the face.

Clare stepped forward, still low, moving smoothly like water. She thrust her arms in front of her, fingers out, and pushed her two foci straight toward Dalia at full speed. Dalia’s eyes went wide, and she pulled back her foci to “grab” Clare’s foci, stopping them a few yards before reaching her.

They were now locked in a full telekinetic grapple, with Dalia using both of her foci to hold back both of Clare’s. Then, Clare splayed her fingers on each hand, and her foci split into five parts each like ethereal fingers, with all ten of them spearing toward Dalia.

Dalia, despite being more powerful, clearly had trouble splitting her concentration into that many parts. As she gritted her teeth and made grasping motions with her hands, each of her foci split into only four “fingers” and grabbed eight of Clare’s to block them. The last two parts slipped through and struck Dalia on her chest.

Dalia gasped and staggered back from the impact, but stayed upright. Clare didn’t have enough power with those remaining two partial foci to knock her off her feet for the win. Still, Sara considered the duel won. Clare could have narrowed those two “fingers” into needle-like spikes and pierced them through Dalia’s flesh. The same power would have been condensed into smaller points. But Clare was too kind for something like that, and she’d followed Dr. Stallard’s directions to prioritize safety over winning.

Dalia bit her lip, clenched her fists, and pushed back hard against Clare, overpowering her. Yard by yard, she moved the connection point of their foci toward Clare and away from herself. Clare merged her mental fingers back into just two foci to concentrate on power for defense, clenching her jaw as she struggled to hold back Dalia’s oncoming push. Sara winced at how badly both of their heads must be throbbing from the effort.

When the connection point was only a few yards away from Clare, Dalia yelled and punched her fists forward. Her two foci turned into thick, sharp, ethereal spears and broke through Clare’s remaining hold, straight toward her chest.

“No!” Sara shouted in the quiet field. Several observers turned to look at her in surprise.

Maria had already clenched both her fists, and her two foci flashed outward. Dalia’s ethereal spears stopped inches from Clare’s chest, held back at the last second by both of Maria’s foci. Clare had taken a big step back as well; if she hadn’t, Maria likely wouldn’t have stopped them in time.

Sara exhaled. Thank you, Maria. Several of the observers were looking at Sara in response to her outburst, not having seen the nearly fatal hit on Clare. Other than the few hand gestures and steps the duelists made, and a slight chill in the air, all of this had been undetectable to them.

After a few seconds, Dalia’s eyes went wide, and she dismissed her foci. “I—I’m sorry,” she said. “I didn’t mean it.”

Clare appeared to be in shock, taking a few deep breaths and still staring down at where Dalia had nearly impaled her chest moments ago.

“What happened, C3?” Dr. Stallard asked. His voice was raised in a way that was rare for him.

“It . . . I’d say it’s a draw,” Maria said. “Both of them had fatal opportunities.” She eyed Dalia, and Dalia’s face paled in response.

Clare eased her shoulders, looked across the field at Dalia, and nodded with a relieved smile. Dalia nodded back, furrowed her brow, and silently mouthed, Sorry.

Dr. Stallard took off his glasses, rubbed his eyes, and stared back at Price. “This, General, is why we don’t do duels.”



Fallon was supposed to have killed Mr. Gordy fifteen minutes ago, but it was just so unsporting. Not a single thing challenging or interesting about it.

The fat man sat two rows up next to his wife, with part of his left butt cheek hanging over the edge of an aisle seat. A likely candidate for a heart attack, and they’d wanted this one to be in public to minimize suspicion. The crew had served the in-flight meal, which was when she’d been told to strike. If she hesitated much longer, they’d start collecting the trays before the deed was done.

Earlier this year, after all sorts of outcry, Congress had passed the Digital Rights Act to protect citizens’ supposed privacy with a bunch of legal constraints. But this guy, an engineer at a government contractor, had recently started a whistleblower campaign against some secret surveillance backdoors that the government had put in place as a workaround. The NSA had quietly offered him a payout to shut up about it, but he’d refused.

Now, here she was. Whether right or not, the moron should’ve taken the hint that yes, the suits had some fangs.

They’d originally picked Clare for this, given how easy the mission was on the surface. But she’d asked so many questions during the briefing that they worried she’d chicken out. And they were right—the girl still hadn’t popped her murder-cherry yet, even in Iran, and this wasn’t the right type of target to start with. So, the suits had decided to swap in Fallon at the last minute, for a mission that was beneath her.

She sighed, eyeing the man. There was nothing more to contemplate. As displeasing as this hit was, they knew she’d get it done. Between bites, he glanced at his wife and said something about the pasta, then smiled. Fallon reached out with one of her foci, felt for his heartbeat, and squeezed.







Chapter 17



Despite his concussion, Asim kept reviewing the camera footage in a spare conference room, preparing for his upcoming questioning.

That seemed like half of what he’d been doing lately: reviewing footage. Always on the back foot. He’d seen parts of the Pentagon attack closer than anyone else, but watching various angles of the strike had helped him piece together more details in the following days.

The nation was in an official state of emergency, the Secret Service had transferred the President from the White House to an undisclosed location, and pressure had mounted, with ACI becoming the scapegoat.

Jade had emerged from the Pentagon metro station and blasted her way through the main entrance with sheer force, wrecking concrete, metal, Kevlar, and human lives in the process. The cameras there were destroyed, but she reappeared on the second-floor cameras a minute later. From there, she moved rapidly around the outer ring, murdering waves of Pentagon police and making her way to General Price. They never stood a chance. Then she broke through an unbreakable window and flew down into the metro tunnels just before heavier reinforcements arrived.

Because the attack had unfolded so quickly, shelter-in-place orders had been issued for VIPs and most of the building. The Secretary of Defense and the various military chiefs had barricaded themselves in their offices, with forces concentrated there to protect them. Other teams were directed toward Jade’s position as cameras tracked her movement. But all prior procedures for handling an attacker assumed no supernatural abilities. Normally this defense would have been more than enough, but the power density brought through these halls exceeded what anyone thought was possible.

Sixty-four Pentagon police, seven civilian contractors at the entrance, three occupants of the attack helicopter, and General Price were dead. Seventy-five people who had just been doing their fucking jobs.

And yet, Asim found himself dwelling on the fact that she’d spared him for some reason, even after he’d shot her. He was only here today because she allowed it. Little else about her was merciful. Had it been simply due to recognition, from the opera?

“It’s time, Colonel,” Brigadier General Davis said from the doorway, his tone unusually formal. “They’re waiting for you.”

Asim sucked in a breath and stood up. “Yes, sir.”

They walked through the undamaged portion of the Pentagon, toward a large room on the third floor flanked by six guards with laser rifles. Davis briefly put a hand on the back of Asim’s shoulder in encouragement as they reached the doors. One guard saluted crisply and led them inside.

The Secretary of Defense, seven of the eight Joint Chiefs, and a dozen aides filled the room; a flag and portrait of Price stood in place of the late Vice Chairman’s chair. Stallard and Major General Scholl both stood off to the side.

Asim saluted. “Colonel Rahal reporting as ordered.”

“At ease,” said the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. General Rodham Dirk, the highest-ranking officer in the country.

“Yes, sir,” Asim said, as deferentially as possible.

“I find this situation . . . unique, Colonel,” Dirk said. “Your division is being reviewed for potential deficiencies in investigating this attack, yet your name personally has also been put forth as a candidate for either the Medal of Honor or the Distinguished Service Cross, the highest two decorations in the Army, for your insistent actions to go after the attacker above and beyond the call of duty.”

“I don’t deserve either one, sir. I just had the right weapon for the job, so I wanted to help if I could. And my division has done their best. Any fault in their investigation rests with me.”

“If I may, sir,” Davis said. “ACI issued notices days before the attack urging key government sites to acquire laser rifles, based on Colonel Rahal’s personal recommendation. He even insisted on getting one himself, having analyzed the nature of the threat.”

Davis, Asim thought. What a goddamn American hero, and a proper gentleman.

“And yet,” Dirk said, fixing his piercing eyes on Asim, “the attacker rampaged through these hallowed halls without warning, Colonel. Why was her next target so unknown?”

“She appeared fewer than three weeks ago, and has powers we don’t understand, sir,” Asim said. “The FBI was also blindsided by this attack, according to our joint task force contacts, and they’ve got a far larger team on this.”

Dirk laced his fingers in front of himself, elbows on the table, and raised an eyebrow. “Surely you have more to say than that, Colonel.”

Asim glanced at Stallard, then back toward Dirk. Alright, then. “Yes, sir. My division has been working overtime on this since the beginning, with as many resources as we could assign, but we were blocked by military courts and the Stolguard Biological Research Facility in accessing key intel. That slowed us down. I stand by everyone under my command, and I take the responsibility, but we were also impaired by external decisions outside our control, sir.” He rested his gaze on Stallard to make a point. The man didn’t flinch.

“Dr. Stallard. Remarks?” Dirk asked.

“Few that are safe to say in this full room, General,” Stallard said. “We’re selective about those who need to know, and not everyone here is vetted.”

Dirk just stared at him.

Stallard cleared his throat, then swept his eyes around the room before fixing them back on Dirk. “Over four decades ago, I convinced Liam Stolguard, a special operations colonel at the time, later a general, to join me in spearheading with the Joint Chiefs’ support, what was effectively a Manhattan Project for bioengineering supremacy over China and other nations. Back in the 2030s, when our country ran into a stalemate against China in the Pacific War due to their superior industrial base, we pushed senior leaders to lean into innovation. With breakthroughs in AI, gene editing, and brain mapping, we knew that with enough funding we could create super-soldiers, super-engineers, and others with superior capabilities for national security.”

“And I take it this clandestine program worked? That’s what this is?”

Stallard nodded. “It required time to mature, but over the past fifteen years, as subjects reached adulthood, it has borne fruit in the field. Hundreds of elite missions have been successfully carried out by the subjects, and they turned the tide in the flare-up between Belarus and Lithuania as well. This recent incident was our first and only security breach, and it’s related to an outlier biological success that exceeded our expectations. The late General Price helped ring-fence the program so this one-time problem wouldn’t compromise sensitive data.”

“We’ll discuss particulars of the program’s continuation later. I’ll say for the purposes of this room that I was aware of the program, though I didn’t know it was quite this extensive. What we need to know now,” Dirk said, rubbing his eyes with one hand, “is how we can bring this thing to justice. It’s only one person.”

Asim opened his mouth, but Stallard cut in. “Army Counterintelligence wasn’t the only group to release a memo about laser defense. My facility also provided similar guidance. We’ve been using such weaponry at our facility ever since they were developed. I recommend all top areas of government adopt laser rifle technology for this specific threat, since she cannot manipulate the movement of massless particles. In addition, I request broad intel sharing from other groups, particularly Army Counterintelligence, to track and eliminate her.”

“We already offer you intel sharing, Doctor,” Asim said. He hoped he didn’t sound as frustrated as he felt.

“We see that it’s discretionary, and not forthcoming,” Stallard said. “My team has to keep reaching out to yours for updates. For the sake of national security, I request direct core access for my facility to your full case database, so we can see it in real time.” He turned to Dirk. “I also request that increased surveillance capabilities be provided to my team, similar to those that ACI has access to. We have the resources necessary to eliminate the threat, but we need more tools to find her, which they’ve failed to do.”

Fuck, Asim thought. He still wanted some leeway to hold certain pieces of intel back. He didn’t trust Stallard.

“Generals,” Asim said. “I requested significant intel from Dr. Stallard, but he refused to provide almost any, beyond what was mostly obvious by that point. We’ve already given them more than they’ve given us. They only released laser guidance to other facilities after we did, likely because they had no choice at that point. And I’ve submitted a report describing the conversation between the attacker and the late General Price, which brought up additional national security concerns related to their facility.”

“Our research is worth trillions to foreign entities,” Stallard said. “We can’t release more than is needed to other divisions that could be compromised. It’s more fitting to give our facility additional surveillance capabilities than give the colonel’s division unnecessary access to proprietary biological research. From there it would spill into the FBI and elsewhere.”

Asim flinched. That argument would sway most here.

“All I can say, generals, is my agents have worked tirelessly on this,” Asim said. “But we haven’t been given key intel to complete the case on a fast enough timeline. The blockages have been unprecedented. We’ve been operating blind here.”

“I move to give Dr. Stallard’s facility core access to ACI data and surveillance capabilities for this case,” Dirk said. “And I will also recommend that the preliminary process moves forward for considering Colonel Rahal for either the Medal of Honor or the Distinguished Service Cross, pending all the proper reviews.”

“Agreed, General,” Secretary of Defense Sethram Goddard said.

Asim pinched the bridge of his nose and blurred through the next few minutes as they unfolded. This was too political for his taste, and his head was pounding. How was this possible? They were dangling a prestigious medal to pacify him while empowering Stallard’s facility.

“I will respectfully refuse any medal, sir,” Asim said, probably interrupting something important. “I can’t accept praise like that while my group is shamed. I would consider it a conflict of interest at this point.”

Dirk turned toward him, eyebrows raised. “You would decline the Medal of Honor or the Distinguished Service Cross in the name of the President of the United States, if awarded?”

“In this case, with full respect to all those present and to the President, yes, sir,” Asim said. “My personal efforts amounted to little. I shot the attacker, but I failed to protect the Vice Chairman. And I’m nothing more than what my division provides, while my division’s failure is what’s being highlighted here.”

There were various murmurs, then agreements by the other generals to delay the recommendation. To keep searching for answers, Asim couldn’t let anyone have a ceremonial grip over him. If that meant giving up external honors to retain his real honor, then so be it.



Ava wondered what was going on over there. Colonel Rahal was taking heat for her own failures. She had focused on his division’s data analysis for this case, and they lacked enough data to predict the attack, which was on her.

She wanted to drive over to the Pentagon and burst into the Joint Chiefs’ meeting to say the fault was hers, but that wasn’t how procedure worked. If there was one room she couldn’t find a way into, that was it. What if the colonel were to be removed from ACI? She had only joined because of him.

Every time in the past few weeks that she’d gone for a run, or read a book, or spent time with a friend, she could have been spending it on more analysis. She might have found a new clue that would have saved lives. She’d built custom pattern models, and cross-referenced street cameras with metro data and edge realm social posts, but none of it had been enough. Some of these deaths were on her for failing to figure out this case in time, and she nearly had a panic attack thinking about it. Brooks had brought her tea an hour ago, and she realized now that she’d left it untouched the whole time, letting it grow cold.

Finally, Colonel Rahal returned. “Well then,” he said, standing at their conference room doorway. “Not my best day.”

“Sir?” she asked, standing up. “What happened?” Several other analysts and investigators looked up as well.

“Nothing good,” he said with a smile, and raised his shoulders. “But not because of any of you. More of our remaining data is being shifted to Stallard’s facility. It’s political, and I’m shitty at politics, so this is on me. I’ll be paying the bar tab tonight, for any of you who want to join me.”







Chapter 18





Two Years Earlier


The earliest of our next three classes have been made. For a while this place began to feel almost like an empty nest, but no longer. The vision is beginning to take shape.

–TS log 12740, excerpt

Sara sat cross-legged on the bed in her dark room. The lights were off, but her eyes could see just fine in the faint glow of moonlight through the window.

In front of her, a small paper crane flapped its wings. It took off, flew in a circle, and landed back on the sheets. A headache was already forming, but she pushed herself like this a few times each week. For years now, she’d practiced with tennis balls or blobs of water in the jacuzzi, just like Clare had taught her.

Sara could now lift a tennis ball a few feet, and recently she had turned her attention to paper. A sheet weighed less than a tenth as much as a tennis ball, which let her practice precision movements with more repetition before exhaustion set in.

She ignored the pain and flew the crane again. With one focus, she lifted and moved the paper body, and with her second focus, she grabbed both wing tips and delicately flapped them up and down to make the flight look realistic. But as her headache sharpened, she sighed and landed it onto her bookshelf beside her other paper creations: a rose, a dragon, a butterfly, a frog, a chameleon, a fish, a plane, and others.

Once more. She gripped the crane with a focus again and lifted it an inch off the shelf. Then she split that focus to also include the dragon, lifting it an inch so the crane floated two inches high and the dragon one. Her headache worsened, pounding behind her eyes. Ignoring it, Sara split that focus twice more to add the butterfly and then the plane. She lifted all four, so that the crane levitated four inches off the shelf, the dragon three inches, the butterfly two, and the plane one. Then she dropped the plane back onto the shelf, followed by the butterfly, the dragon, and the crane, one at a time. She winced in pain, lightheaded. That was enough for now.

She had become proficient at dynamic inclusions and exclusions, able to add or drop objects without resetting a whole focus group. With Clare’s help, Sara wasn’t half bad at precision and advanced movements anymore, now that she practiced with water and paper so regularly, but she still had almost no power. Suitable for parlor tricks, basically.

Twenty years old and nothing to show for it. She’d graduated from development four years earlier, at sixteen, by skipping the telekinesis requirement, and yet had never once been assigned to the field. The officers who selected mission candidates had little use for a marginal super-soldier, as General Price had once called her.

He wasn’t wrong. Beyond moving tiny objects for seconds at a time, her only real powers were sharp eyesight, quick reflexes, and fast healing. But she was smaller than the average male soldier, let alone the giants of Class B. Her marksmanship was elite, but one skilled sniper didn’t interest spec-ops groups when they already had elite teams of their own. Risking her body and its genetic secrets getting into enemy hands wasn’t worth it to them, not without something bigger to gain from that risk. And every year without field experience left her further behind.

In her younger years, she’d imagined using her training and abilities to work around her limitations and become something like an infiltrator or “ninja,” but that vision had clearly been childish. It’d been every bit a fantasy as all the silly novels on her shelf.

Fallon, Maria, Santiago, Jax, and four others were on a multi-month mission in Eastern Europe, providing clandestine support for a war the United States wasn’t officially involved in. Sara had hoped to be chosen too, not because she wanted to fight, but because she wanted to see somewhere, anywhere, beyond this stale place. She still hadn’t been more than a mile from her own bed in any direction, and if she could help a country defend itself in some small way, that seemed worthwhile. It could matter to someone.

Did she have a team here? A sense of camaraderie? Barely. Bronn was almost always away on missions now, and Clare was gone half the time as well. Sara loved both of them as much as always, but they weren’t here. She helped take care of Marcus, eleven years old now, but he’d become so quiet since Stallard had begun his experiments on him, and his extreme intelligence limited what she could even offer. There were new classes, E, F, and G, for the first time in years, but the oldest among them were babies, and the youngest were still growing in their pods.

That left Damien as the one person she could confide in. But even he had grown increasingly distant as his experiments wore him thin. Sara felt awful about that, but she didn’t know how to help, and that made her feel even worse. They still spent most of their spare time together, but it felt like he wasn’t even present half the time, often lost in his own head.

She’d loved him for years now and tried to give subtle hints via looks or touches to see if he would make a move, but he never did. She considered directly telling him about her feelings, making a move of her own, but it would risk leaving things awkward between them if he turned her down. His friendship was too valuable to risk.

She was probably deluding herself anyway; he obviously had affection for her as a friend or a sister, and they’d been inseparable since they were young. But with their intelligence gap, he likely couldn’t view her as a true romantic partner. Her eyes teared up at the thought, but there was no sense in dwelling on it.

As the only worthless member of her class, made for a single purpose but unfit for it, she was punished with increasing isolation. By now she’d hoped to have seen the world or have some idea of what her future would hold, but she’d long since learned that life wasn’t a fairy tale.

It was on wakeful nights like these that she found herself having darker thoughts. What if she put a bullet in the doctor’s head one day? Why hadn’t anyone done that yet? All of those hyperaggressive Class B subjects over the years, and not one of them just decided to end him? She’d already been sneaking around a loaded pistol in her pack for self-defense for years now, ever since learning of what Jolgen had done to Clare, so the next time Stallard ran some sort of assembly—bang.

She would die too, of course. Any number of the countless guards at the facility would shoot her within seconds. But it wasn’t like her life was valuable enough to fear losing.

Realistically, she knew she wouldn’t go through with it. It was just something she found herself contemplating from time to time during the darkest hours of the night.



Fallon watched as Santiago raised a hand, signaling the group to get ready. He was leading her, Jax, and Maria on a tank-busting mission in Eastern Europe on the warfront, which they’d been grinding through for almost two months now.

She hated every moment of it. Hiding behind a fallen tree near a road in the drizzle, un-showered for half a week, she watched an approaching company of tanks and artillery. Solo assassinations were far preferable to outright war, snooping around in a muddy forest like this for so long. How gross. This wasn’t how she’d envisioned her mid-twenties going.

The tanks were hardened against most armor-busting weapons. Several anti-air artillery units rolled with them as well, warding off heavier airstrikes from above. But they had no defense against telekinesis, other than the sheer number of combat drones and men with guns protecting the perimeter.

When Santiago gave the signal, Fallon as the team’s heavy hitter would crush the barrels of the anti-air artillery units, effectively taking them off the board. That was the key mission. If there was time afterward, she’d also break a tank’s sensor array, flip over a truck full of soldiers, or otherwise wreak havoc where possible.

If it went well, the enemy wouldn’t even spot them here in the forest, since Fallon’s strikes were invisible. If it went wrong, though, that was where the others would step in. Santiago and Jax were armored juggernauts, carrying .50-caliber heavy machine guns as if they were standard rifles and able to wield them with incredible reflexes and aim. Maria filled the gaps, striking where needed and keeping track of the whole battle from the backline.

Still, the four of them couldn’t finish the armored company themselves. Eight tanks, four anti-air artillery vehicles, and several trucks filled with soldiers was too big of a group to engage directly. Their job was to cripple the air defenses so an allied helicopter force could swoop in and finish them off. On Santiago’s orders, Jax was already whispering over the radio to the local lieutenant colonel, giving him coordinates for the cleanup strike and confirming that they were about to start their work.

Five seconds, Santiago signaled silently with his hand. Four, three, two, one.

Fallon planted her bracers on the ground, drew warmth from the air, and crushed the first anti-air gun, then the second. She was about to crush the third when an officer shouted in his language something like, “Hidden targets, two o’clock!”

Shit, she thought. That’s faster than normal.

Maria crushed his throat an instant after he shouted, but it was too late. A hail of gunfire came in their direction. Armored soldiers jumped off their trucks and spread out over the road like bees from a kicked hive, shooting into the forest. One of the vehicles launched a flying, buzzing swarm of combat drones as well, each one capable of fatal shots.

How’d they see us? The four of them had done this several times over the past two months, and the enemy was getting better at responding, but this was a leap. They’d grown wise to their strategy, seemingly to the point of setting a trap.

“Back, back!” Santiago shouted. Maria retreated first. Jax nodded to Fallon, and she backed up several yards, finding cover behind the thickest tree nearby.

Santiago pulled up his heavy machine gun and opened fire, mowing down the front wave of oncoming soldiers and drones. Bullets rained back at him. Some struck his armor and grazed his helmet, forcing him to drop back down behind cover. His heavy nanocomposite armor covered his body from head to toe, several times thicker than the slim vest Fallon wore, but he still had to back down when focus-fired. The flexible spaces around the joints had their limits.

Two more enemy soldiers from that wave dropped dead as Maria crushed their throats. She then slammed three of the closest drones hard into the ground, smashing them apart.

There were more waves though, continuing to pour off the trucks toward their position. As Fallon peeked from around the tree she used for cover, a bullet whizzed past her cheek. She snapped back, blinding herself to what was happening. Heavy gunfire shredded the tree’s wood, threatening to pierce all the way through if she let them continue endlessly. From what she’d last seen, Santiago and Jax were still pinned at the front, behind their fallen tree. Their options were dwindling.

She had to step up now.

“I’m going to blast!” she shouted over the sound of gunfire. “Stay low and fall back! Three, two, one!” Even Santiago as the team leader would defer to a blast order. She was about to use her strongest attack.

Planting her bracers and broadening the tips of both foci, Fallon pushed as hard as she could, sending a horizontal blast of force toward the enemy, straight through the tree she was using for cover. Hopefully high enough off the ground to go over Santiago and Jax’s crouched position. The air turned frigid, and frost spread across the ground in as wide of a circle as she’d ever made.

Normally she focused on gripping sets of individual objects and either moving, twisting, or crushing them, but for this rarer and less energy-efficient method of telekinesis, she channeled environmental temperature to push everything in their direction, every square inch of space. None of the others in her class could hit this hard, and it would leave her with a severe headache and drain her options afterward.

With a crack as loud as a lightning strike, the thick tree exploded outward toward the enemy and her foci surged forward from there. Nine soldiers flew back screaming, torn apart in a spray of misted blood. Their bullets reversed course midair, shooting back the way they came. Over a dozen of their flying drones got caught in the blast and shattered, spewing their metallic pieces backward as well. Several trees fell in the enemy’s direction as though a tornado tore through them, while branches and bark ripped off others on the periphery. The forest for eighty yards in front of her vanished into utter ruin.

Capitalizing on the opportunity, Santiago and Jax stayed low and fell back to Maria’s position, leaving Fallon as the most forward member of the team.

“Come Fallon!” Jax shouted. “We’ve got the opening.”

Fallon released her energy-draining blast, her vision blurring as pain blossomed in her head. At the far reach of the damage, one of the tanks flew back and toppled onto its side in a cloud of dust and debris.

She staggered back into the forest toward her team. Jax covered her with fire from his machine gun.

“Tank!” Maria shouted.

Fallon turned back as the nearest undamaged tank swung its barrel right toward them. Maria reached out, teeth clenched, and the barrel exploded with a deafening pop. She’d crushed it just in time, forcing the round inside to misfire and blow the barrel open. Gasping from the strain, Maria turned and sprinted into the forest.

Fallon took the opportunity and bolted after her, but she tripped over a root and dropped to the ground, disoriented by her growing headache from her all-out blast. Her ears were ringing, too, throwing off her balance.

A strong hand grabbed her vest, yanking her back up.

“Jax!” she gasped.

“I got you babe, come on.” Jax’s voice was muffled behind his face-covering helmet. Fallon scrambled to her feet with his help and ran with him.

“Threats, three o’clock!” Santiago shouted from up ahead as their group ran through the forest. Fallon looked to her right and saw more soldiers and drones through the trees. She couldn’t tell how many. They had entered the forest farther down the road at the initial moment of the attack and were trying to flank them perpendicularly. Their commanders must’ve prepared this reaction ahead of time; it was perfectly executed. Her head throbbed and her vision blurred, but while sprinting with Jax she tried to spot any soldier to attack.

A soldier gurgled and fell as Maria crushed his throat. Santiago exchanged fire with enemies Fallon couldn’t even see through the dense woods, coupled with her own disorientation. She could only hope that she wouldn’t be hit, and hated feeling so weak, blindly relying on Jax to guide her out. The two of them were falling farther behind Santiago and Maria. They were out of sight now.

Jax stopped and used his hand to guide her away from him. “You go ahead, right that way Fallon, straight there. I’ll provide some cover fi—” His words were cut off by a shot to his neck. He stumbled back, and then his throat burst open.

Fallon screamed as he fell. It was an explosive round, straight to where his armor was thin and flexible. She dropped to her knees next to him as he thrashed around, and she scrambled to pull off his helmet. He looked up at her, eyes frantic, and gurgled. Blood spewed everywhere from his gaping wound as Fallon tried to cover it with her palms.

“It’s okay Jax, you’ll heal. You’ll—”

“Freeze!” shouted an accented voice, coupled with the clicks of several guns. She paused, then raised her bloody hands and laced them behind her head, though she kept her eyes locked on Jax. A few seconds later, his body went limp, his unblinking face staring up at her, frozen in a final expression of pain and fear.

Fallon tilted her head to her right and glanced back out of the corner of her eye. Four soldiers stood there, pointing assault rifles at her back, while she knelt in the mud. A wave of rage flowed through her. The slow kind. She could almost feel its movement through her veins, spreading out from her chest, burning inside like molten syrup. She clenched her teeth so hard they could’ve cracked.

One soldier pulled out a pair of restraints and yelled something she didn’t understand. The meaning was clear enough. He stepped toward her.

She waited until he was close. He’d make a good meat shield for what she was about to do.

As he tried to grab her wrist, she used her right focus to grip all three of the other soldiers’ rifles and launched them high into the air.

Two men let go of their grips as their rifles flew upward. The third got a shot off, the round hitting the dirt a foot from where she knelt, but his rifle cord was too entangled around him, and he was yanked far up into the forest canopy, screaming.

In response, the soldier trying to cuff Fallon reached for his rifle. She used her left focus to grip his throat and crush it straight through, inadvertently beheading him with excess force.

Fallon’s head split in pain, and she was on the verge of passing out. If only she’d had more time to recover from that blast.

The two disarmed soldiers who were still standing drew their pistols. She should have crushed their throats rather than launch their rifles. What had she been thinking? The problem was she hadn’t been thinking. She used the last of her strength to crush the throat of the soldier who was first on the draw, but the second soldier aimed right at her face. Her vision swam and her energy was utterly drained. She frantically grasped at the pistol holstered on her own hip, but she was too disoriented, too slow.

Not like this.

She flinched as gunshots rang out, but they weren’t from that last soldier’s pistol. They were from Santiago’s heavy machine gun tearing through the side of that soldier’s head, bursting it open. Santiago and Maria had come back for her.

Heart pounding in her chest, still kneeling, Fallon looked down at Jax again. As she did, the three guns and one soldier that she’d previously flung skyward began to fall, hitting the ground around her with metallic thuds, one after the other. The soldier screamed as he fell into a more sickening crunch, silencing on impact.

Fallon ignored it all, and a strange serenity filled the forest around her. She reached out to close Jax’s eyelids, then caressed his handsome cheek. Seconds later, from the direction of the road, came the chopping of helicopter blades and one thunderous explosion after another. The air crew had come to finish off what remained of the enemy company.







Chapter 19





Two Years Earlier, Continued


I believe Damien was correct several years ago, after all. It seems a bit more coddling was needed for this first batch. Going forward, we will optimize the process more to ensure that subjects’ emotions and motivations are fully tailored for their purpose.

–TS log 12746, excerpt

Fallon sat in the facility’s familiar white-walled cafeteria with a table all to herself. She’d forgotten to eat the day before, and now, staring at the items on her tray, she wondered why she’d chosen any of them.

Eight days had passed since Jax died. After the incident, Santiago, Maria, and Fallon had rendezvoused with the nearest checkpoint and were lifted out with Jax’s body. Within a few days, they were back in safe territory, debriefed, and flown home. And here she was, not knowing what to do next. Day after day passed without Jax around. It felt too quiet.

When she was most honest with herself, Fallon wasn’t even sure what she was angrier about: Jax’s death or the feeling of having been so weak. She’d almost died as an unnamed soldier on a foreign battlefield, one of countless corpses rotting in the mud. It’s not like she’d wanted to go on that stupid mission in the first place.

Part of her wanted to obliterate the table. She imagined crashing it up into the ceiling, then flinging it back down to shatter across the floor in front of everyone. She had so much anger and nowhere to put it. Somehow, breaking the table felt more constructive than eating the worthless meal that sat atop it.

Sensing herself on the verge of actually doing it, she forced herself to her feet and headed to the restroom.

She pushed through the door with a slam and walked over to one of the sinks, then stared into the mirror. Bags hung under her eyes. She felt eight years older than she had eight days ago. With a sigh, she turned on the faucet and splashed cold water on her face.

A toilet flushed. She hadn’t bothered to check if anyone else was here. After a moment, one of the stall doors opened. It was Sara.

Fallon glanced up at her in the mirror, and Sara paused. Breaking eye contact after a second, she sheepishly walked over to one of the farthest sinks to wash her hands.

What a drama queen. Fallon hadn’t hurt Sara since they were young, and that’d been in a duel. She was unimportant, like most of the lab dorks and facility guards. Fallon went back to washing her face.

Sara shut off her faucet, dried her hands, then paused again. “I’m sorry about Jax,” she said. “About . . . what happened to you over there.”

“What?” Fallon asked, glancing over.

“I heard it was awful.” Sara turned, facing her. “That’s all. I’m sorry for what you went through. Losing someone so close.”

Fallon loved it when people respected her. She liked it when people feared her. She didn’t even mind it when people hated her. But no, she would not be pitied. She stared at Sara for a moment, then mentally flung her back against the tile wall. Sara crumpled to the floor, her face filled with shock, blood seeping from the back of her head.

“That’s what I think of your pity!” Fallon shouted as the chilled air sent goosebumps up her arms. “You think I give a shit about what happened to Jax? It was his own damn fault!”

Fallon watched Sara for a second, bleeding on the floor and grasping for her pack, which had landed a few feet away, then forced herself to turn and leave. But as Fallon walked away, a click sounded from behind. She froze, staring at the exit for a moment.

She wouldn’t dare. Fallon turned slowly and saw Sara lying there, blond hair streaked with red, eyes narrowed, pointing a pistol at her with both hands.

Fallon waited for a moment, out of sheer curiosity to see if she would fire. She could stop the bullet if she did, and readied herself to do so by watching Sara’s trigger finger for any sign of movement. But no attempted shot came. Just Sara aiming her gun, trembling.

“That’s it? Nothing?” Fallon asked. She mentally crushed the gun barrel. “Which limb should I break first?”

“I didn’t want any trouble!” Sara shouted, sounding more frustrated than afraid. She should’ve been terrified, begging for her life right now.

“Clearly you did.” Fallon mentally gripped Sara’s right wrist—the primary hand used to hold the pistol—and lifted her up off the floor by it, her legs fruitlessly kicking in the air. Sara gasped and grabbed her arm with her other hand, trying to take the pressure of her body’s weight off it.

Fallon let seconds tick by, watching Sara frantically hang and squirm. Blood already dripped from her hair; head wounds did tend to bleed a lot. But there wasn’t enough defeat in her expression yet.

“Beg me to let you go, or I’ll make it worse,” Fallon said.

Sara looked up with fury and pain in her eyes. Still not enough fear.

Fallon squeezed Sara’s wrist harder until it audibly fractured. Sara screamed.

Then, Fallon walked toward her as she hung by her single wrist. “I’m going to squeeze harder and harder until you beg me to stop. Otherwise, you’ll lose your—”

Sara swung her legs up and kicked her in the face as soon as she stepped within range. Fallon staggered back several steps and lost mental control of her grip, letting Sara drop hard to the floor.

As she steadied herself, Fallon tasted blood. So, it’ll be murder, then. She instinctively reached up to touch her lip, and her fingers came away warm and red. By the time she looked up, Sara was already on her feet and charging in. Fallon put her hand out, and Sara froze a foot away from her, eyes wide, choking.

“You think you were close, but you weren’t. I was just going slow on you,” Fallon said. She slammed Sara a dozen feet back to the wall again, harder than before, to regain some distance. The back of Sara’s head made a cracking sound, leaving a spot of blood on the wall as she hit the floor, limp.

The restroom door burst open, and Fallon turned back to look. It was Raphael. He took in the scene, and horror filled his eyes when he saw Sara.

“Stop!” he shouted, raising his laser rifle toward Fallon. “Get away from C17.”

“You sure you can pull the trigger before I can shove that gun back through your face?” Fallon asked.

Raphael hesitated, and they stared at each other for a moment, until Fallon rolled her eyes and raised her hands to ease the standoff. “We were done playing anyway,” she said. “I’ll just walk out.”

She strolled toward him, and he treaded backward, keeping his rifle pointed at her chest as he did. He even managed to get the door open without taking his eyes or his gun off her. Impressive. He was the head of security, after all. But he didn’t seem to realize she already had one of her foci on his trigger, making sure he couldn’t squeeze it. It was adorable that he thought this was still a contest.

By the time they emerged into the main hall area near the cafeteria, a facility alarm had started blaring, and there was a scene. Two more guards raised their standard assault rifles at her.

Several members of Class B and Class C came from the cafeteria to see the commotion, including Jolce and Clare.

“One of you, check on C17 in the restroom,” Raphael said, never taking his eyes or gun off Fallon. “She’s injured, or worse. And someone call the infirmary.”

Clare’s eyes went wide, and she dashed into the restroom. Those two were so close that Fallon sometimes wondered if it was more than just friendship.

By now, the stupidity of what she’d done had fully set it in. She’d held herself back from breaking the cafeteria table, but then had broken Sara instead at the slightest provocation. How dumb. It was undeserved, and she’d take it back if she could. But she was in too deep now; might as well see it through to the end. So she stood there, folded her arms, spat out some blood like it was nothing, and purposely kept a smirk on her face for the audience.

A minute later, Dr. Stallard came pacing down the hall, flanked by four more guards, two of whom held laser rifles. Another three guards came from a side corridor. They had her surrounded.

“What’s going on here, C5?” Dr. Stallard demanded.

That brute Jolgen had killed two classmates as a teenager and got off easy. Some others in Class B had done the same, including Santiago once, such a long time ago. The smart move here would be to back down and apologize.

But she wasn’t in the mood for being smart. Not today. Instead, she mentally grabbed Dr. Stallard’s throat without making any visible motions. Not enough to stop his airflow or blood; just enough to immobilize him.

“C5!” he shouted.

“Call me Fallon and I’ll release you,” she said.

“Have you gone mad?”

“I said, call me Fallon.”

After a few seconds, Raphael and the other guards realized what she was doing.

“Let him go!” Raphael shouted, more intensely than before. Several soldiers tightened their fingers on their triggers. They actually looked ready to shoot this time.

“Anyone fires, and I’ll take him with me,” Fallon said. “I just want to hear my name.” Her eyes teared up, but that only added to her fury. For a man whose neck she could snap with a thought, why did he have such power over her?

Raphael glanced at Dr. Stallard, unsure of what to do.

“You’ve been through a lot, C5. I understand that. We can fix this,” Dr. Stallard said.

“Call me Fallon.”

“No.”

“Do it!”

“No.”

He sounded so calm, and that disarmed her. Fatherly even, despite his words that said otherwise. She stared at him, heart pounding, as more people came. Guards and lab dorks were everywhere. And now Maria, Santiago, and Damien.

Fallon reluctantly let go of Dr. Stallard’s throat. Her father’s throat. “Fine. I overreacted.”

More than two dozen guns aimed at her now, including lasers from too many directions to deal with, and several Class B and Class C members would side with Dr. Stallard over her if chaos broke out. None of those were what frightened her, though. It was that she couldn’t bring herself to hurt him.

“Firearms down, everyone. It’s okay,” Dr. Stallard said. “Like I said, we can fix this.” Most guards immediately lowered their weapons, but a few hesitated. One by one, their rifles gradually went down, with Raphael’s being the last.

“How can we fix this?” Fallon shouted. “Look around!”

“Come with me, C5,” Dr. Stallard said. There was a calm affection in his voice, and he gestured toward himself.

She hesitated, then approached.

He led her side by side down the corridor the way he’d come, his hand gently on her shoulder as if to guide her, which he’d never done before. Raphael and eight guards followed closely. When they reached the facility’s central stairwell, Dr. Stallard opened the door and gestured for her to go first.

“Where are we going?” Fallon asked.

“Downstairs. There will be consequences for what you’ve done, but they’ll be good for you.”

Fallon paused. She turned back and looked at Raphael and the guards. Several of them tensed up, gripping their weapons tighter, but they didn’t raise them.

“No need for all of that,” Dr. Stallard said. “Look at me, not them, C5. Come, come.” He stepped through the doorway himself and held the door open for her with an expression of casual assurance, like of course she would follow, no doubt in his mind. She didn’t know why, but it felt right, and so she did.

They descended the stairs, guards following, then went down deeper than the basement pool level, all the way to the sub-basement. She had never been down here before, and it was off-limits to subjects, though she’d heard there were large warehouses where they kept the medical samples and pharmaceuticals. At the bottom was a large room with two guards seated at a table playing cards. They stood quickly, looking surprised. “Sir,” one of them said to Dr. Stallard.

Fallon looked around, taking in the entrance to the facility’s industrial elevator, which went from the sub-basement to the top floor, as well as a door that read Maintenance, a door that read Restrooms, and wide double doors that read Cold Storage.

“We have several layers of cold storage warehouses,” Dr. Stallard said in a conversational tone. “Different things require different temperatures. Raphael, you and the others can wait here.”

“Sir, I don’t think that’s—”

“It’s fine, Raphael. You’ve performed admirably. I’ll be back in a moment.”

“Yes . . . sir.”

Dr. Stallard tapped the button beside the Cold Storage double doors, and they opened automatically. He gestured for Fallon to follow him in, and she did. Being alone, without guards, put her more at ease.

Inside waited a chilled laboratory room, or a mortuary by the looks of it. There were large metal tables on wheels, assorted medical equipment, and a harsh scent of something like formaldehyde. There was also a large coat rack, a storage closet, and another large set of double doors labeled Cold Storage 1.

“Is this . . .” Fallon started. “Is this where Jax is?”

Dr. Stallard nodded gravely. “Yes, but there’s no need to fret. That’s not what we’re here for. Come with me.”

He pulled a coat from the rack and put it on. Fallon had never seen a coat so thick. It went down to his knees and had a large hood that could zip up and cover most of the face. He nodded to the rack, and Fallon went over and grabbed the same type. It had several interior layers, all made with some advanced material. When she finished putting it on, Dr. Stallard stuffed a pair of thick gloves into his coat pocket and handed her a pair as well. She stuffed them into her pocket too.

Insulated suspender pants and oversized boots sat underneath the rack, on a lower shelf. Dr. Stallard ignored those, but he grabbed an extra coat and slung it over his shoulder.

“Good. All set,” he said, and tapped the button beside the next set of double doors, which opened automatically. They entered a small insulation room between two sets of double doors, and as Dr. Stallard led her in, the prior doors closed behind them. He pressed the main button on the wall of the insulation room, and the next set of doors opened.

A much larger room stretched ahead, with tall shelves of storage forming seven aisles to walk through. Some aisles were filled with medical samples, others with pharmaceuticals.

Fallon followed Dr. Stallard down the long center aisle to another set of double doors at the far end of the room; these were labeled Cold Storage 2.

“Mortuaries are for short-term use to keep bodies cold, but not frozen,” Dr. Stallard said. “Many supplies need to be kept like that. However, some facilities, such as forensic institutes or certain medical laboratories, require temperatures far below zero to minimize long-term decomposition. This second one here is set to negative sixty degrees. It’s the largest of its type in the world.” He gestured toward the next door.

Fallon eyed him. “What are we doing?”

“You need to cool off,” he said. “Literally. It’ll do you wonders.”

“In there?”

“What better jail is there for someone like you, who pulls heat from the air for energy?”

She found herself staring, and realized belatedly that her mouth was open.

He smiled. “No reason to worry; this won’t be for long. You wouldn’t survive long in there anyway, even with your enhanced metabolism. It’s a jail, not a prison. Much like how violent drunks need to be thrown in a cell for a night to cool off, this is the equivalent for you. You’ll emerge better, I think.”

Fallon’s telekinesis worked reasonably well in winter temperatures. Actions were harder in the cold, since it was tougher to draw energy out of frigid air than warm, but it wasn’t a major hindrance. She had never tried her powers in such deeply subzero temperatures, though. Negative sixty degrees?

She narrowed her eyes. Killing him now was still an option, before she entered that colder room. She’d have to fight her way back through waves of guards and would surely die, but she’d take a lot of them with her along the way.

“How long?” she asked.

“Until you’re better.” He smiled. “Trust me for once.”

She searched his gray eyes. Was he playing with her? In which direction should she take her chances? The freezer or back through the guards? By now there would probably be triple the number up there, and many with lasers.

“Fine,” she said eventually.

Dr. Stallard tapped the button. The door opened automatically to another small insulation room, which they stepped into. After the doors shut behind them, he pressed the main button inside, and a final set of doors opened ahead.

Another warehouse loomed in front of them, just like the prior one, with seven aisles stretching into the room between tall shelves. Dr. Stallard gestured with his chin for her to enter.

Last chance, she thought. But after a few seconds, she sighed and stepped in. A blast of cold struck her face; she’d never felt temperatures like this. It almost felt like burning rather than freezing. The room was surprisingly loud, too—whatever machines hypercooled the air made a constant humming sound.

Dr. Stallard lingered at the doorway. “Now C5, listen carefully,” he said over the noise. “We have cameras, so please don’t damage anything here, or we’ll have a problem again. And without your coat, you’ll become hypothermic in minutes and die not long thereafter. With your coat, you’ll live, especially with your enhanced metabolism and cellular repair. Make sure you keep it on. And here’s a second one as well. I’ll be back after you’ve had sufficient time to reflect.”

He tossed her the extra coat, then tapped the button for the door to close. After it did, Fallon watched him through the small window and heard him clamping something outside. It sounded like a pair of handcuffs. He stepped through the previous doors out of the insulation room, then out of sight.

Fallon was already freezing, and a knot of fear twisted inside as she realized she was locked in. She pulled the thick gloves out of her pocket and slid them over her already-numb hands. The coat and hood kept her body warm, but her face felt like ice and fire at the same time, and she didn’t have the right type of pants or shoes for a prolonged stay in a place like this. That was clearly what those dorky suspender pants and boots under the coat rack had been for. She went over and pressed the exit button for the door, but as expected, it ran into metallic resistance and wouldn’t open. Dr. Stallard had cuffed the handles together.

I have to test my powers.

She tossed the extra coat onto the floor, stepped back, and tried to lift it. She envisioned energy flowing from the air and into the coat. The air was far below freezing, but it wasn’t at absolute zero, so the molecules still had some kinetic energy in them. It all felt so reluctant, though. When she tried to lift the coat, it was as though it weighed thousands of pounds. With all her mental strength, she raised it for about ten seconds until she gasped and dropped it back to the floor, a headache already forming. With this absurd weakness, she wouldn’t be able to bust open the door, wouldn’t be able to get out. Was this how Sara felt all the time?

Shivering despite her thick coat, Fallon started pacing around the room to explore and keep herself warm. It had a similar layout to the first cold warehouse, with seven aisles heading toward the deep end of the room. A sign above the first aisle starting from the right read Cadavers. She tried opening one of the sliding steel doors that would presumably have a body in it, but it was locked. She read several of the number-names listed, and they were all people she had known. Of the four dead members of Class C, three were here. The first one, C1, was not. She had died very young. Six of the ten dead members of Class B were here as well. And there was one labeled D3, for . . . what was his name again? Rudolph.

There were dozens of empty spaces for more bodies here, and Fallon remembered Sara again. Would she end up down here soon, from her injuries? How hard had she cracked Sara’s head against the wall with that second push? Fallon felt a shiver run through her, though not from the cold this time. She kept walking.

All of us will end up here. Even if Dr. Stallard was right that their enhanced healing would slow their aging, she’d never imagined living a long life. She was a weapon, a predator, and therefore prone to danger. There were a lot of things she could heal from, but as Jax had just shown, an explosive round to the neck wasn’t one of them. That was all it took: a big enough hit to the head or chest. Their skin, muscles, bones, and joints could heal faster than normal, and more completely, but none of that helped much for a lethal shot.

Seeing the exact spot where her body would be stored, though, caused her to pause. Especially while surrounded by such frigid air. The blank square steel door right under the one labeled C4 was where Fallon would probably go. Right there. She’d be on this planet for such little time, and bred for such a specific purpose, so she had to be the best at it. And yet, because everything she did was classified, hardly anyone would ever know of her deeds—all the people she’d killed, at home and abroad, to keep the country safe. Only the people in this facility, and a handful of high-ranking suits and generals, had any idea that she even existed. She’d have no husband, no children, and would probably die within the next decade or two, if she even made it out of this frozen hell.

“This is where we go to die,” she whispered.

She walked farther and reached the end of the row and found the storage for infant and toddler cadavers, including C1, several of the earliest members of Class B, some members of Class D, and all of Class A. She’d always wondered how many members of the first class there were, and now she knew that the answer was eight. Eight tiny bodies. None of them had chosen a name.

Fallon jumped in place a few times to try to generate some warmth, then resumed walking. Her face burned with cold, especially the tip of her nose. She zipped up the annoying face-mask portion all the way, covering everything but her eyes.

The other aisles proved less interesting. Slices of tissue, medical samples, and all sorts of creepy vials. Plenty of spare space as well.

Every hour, her toes would go numb through her shoes, so she’d return to the spare coat on the floor, sit in the corner, and wrap her legs up with it. That helped, along with rubbing them, but then her core body temperature would get too cold from not moving, which forced her to get up and walk some more. She eventually lost track of how much time had gone by.

“Can I come out now?” she shouted, her voice weak and hollow, as she stared up at one of the cameras. No answer. Could they even hear her over the warehouse coolers’ incessant humming? More pacing. More rounds of warming her toes.

After she lay down for the fourth or fifth time, it was too tiring to get back up. With her hood up, her gloves on, and the second coat over her legs like a blanket, she drifted off.



“Good morning,” Dr. Stallard’s voice said.

Fallon opened her eyes, still wrapped up in the two coats, but she felt too sleepy to move. She wasn’t even shivering anymore, which was nice. She closed her eyes and started to drift off aga—

“I have tea,” he said, nudging her shoulder. “Come, have some. You’re hypothermic.”

It took all the effort she had, but Fallon opened her eyes and sat up. She was still in that frozen warehouse, and most of her body had gone numb. A thermos appeared in front of her, held by a gloved hand, and she looked up to see Dr. Stallard’s face.

“What time is it?” she asked. Her voice barely came out in a whisper.

“Early morning. Your lips are blue. We have to warm you up. Here. Have a sip. Slowly.”

Fallon reached out, but it was hard to even grasp the thermos with her numb, gloved hands. As she gained her grip on it, Dr. Stallard loosened his, though he kept his hands hovering close by in case she dropped it. She lifted it to her face, letting it warm her skin, then sipped, tasting the strong black tea as it filled her mouth with heat. Normally tea was too bitter for her taste, but here it was delicious. She swallowed, then took another sip.

“That’s enough,” Dr. Stallard said. “You’re likely dehydrated, but we need to get you out and warm you up properly. Here, take my hand, Fallon.”

Her chest went tight. Had she imagined that? No. She gazed up at him, eyes wide, and saw his hand extended. After a pause, she took it—how rarely they had ever touched—and he pulled her up firmly while also gripping her under the triceps to steady her. He walked her toward the door.

“Why wouldn’t you just call me by my name before?” she asked.

“I can’t reward bad behavior, especially in front of others,” he said. “But for good behavior, that I can do.”

“Is . . . Sara alive?” Fallon asked.

“C17 woke up this morning,” Dr. Stallard said. “Emmett thinks she’ll recover, in time. Now come, let’s get you out of here.”







Chapter 20



“I’m going to Florida next week,” Asim said to a small audience of analysts and agents in their ACI conference room. “I could use some sun for a change.”

“Sir?” Ava said.

“To MacDill Air Force Base, in Tampa. It’s the headquarters of the US Special Operations Command, SOCOM. I think their general knows things that could be helpful. Price used to lead that command prior to becoming the Vice Chairman.”

“But didn’t you already run into a dead end with the Joint Chiefs last week?” Flanagan asked. “How could going to someone beneath them help?”

“That’s the thing,” Asim said, raising a finger. “The commanders of the Unified Combatant Commands are the ones who directly control troops, and they don’t quite report to the Joint Chiefs. The Joint Chiefs are the highest-ranking officers in each of the six branches, along with the Chairman and Vice Chairman at the very top, but they focus on advising and administrative leadership, not controlling forces directly.”

Flanagan nodded, but Asim still saw a lot of blank faces, so he continued. “The military branches used to compete in any given region, and top commanders wanted to avoid that. So, they established the eleven Unified Combatant Commands. For example, even within the Army, some of the intelligence I used to provide in the field would go to the Navy as well, for when their strike teams were needed instead of ours. There are seven geographical commands, each focused on a certain region of the planet. Any US combat that happens there, no matter if it involves the Army or the Navy or the Air Force or whatever, goes through the Unified Combatant Command that oversees that region. It’s a way to organize the branches to work together.”

“Which one oversees mutants, Colonel?” Brooks asked. Ava smirked.

Asim decided to take the question seriously. “There are four Unified Combatant Commands that aren’t related to geography, to complete the eleven total. US Cyber Command deals with cyber threats. US Strategic Command deals with nuclear matters. US Transportation Command focuses on logistics. And there’s US Special Operations Command, or SOCOM, which deals with elite missions such as targeted strikes or hostage retrieval. From what General Price said to Jade before she killed him, the senior officers of SOCOM are most familiar with Stallard and his operations. I pulled a lot of strings to go talk to their commander. The Joint Chiefs are all based in the Pentagon, but the commanders of the eleven Unified Combatant Commands who directly control troops are spread out across the country. The one I want to talk to is down in Tampa—General Rodriguez.”

Roy had told Asim weeks ago off the record that these green-eyed operatives had been involved in spec-ops for years, but he couldn’t reference that. The brief dialogue between Jade and Price had reinforced that fact, and he was able to reference that in his official reports, working his way up to a meeting with their highest levels directly.

“Can’t we expect more obfuscation?” another agent asked.

“Of course, but I have to pursue it now. It’s the highest level we can reach with some degree of independence from the Joint Chiefs. We still don’t have any on-the-ground leads for Veronica, but I can explore these spec-op routes to at least understand the scope of the issue. This general is making me wait days for a meeting, though, despite all my string-pulls.”



That night, Asim sat on the third-floor balcony, front row, off to the right side of the stage in Opera, Space Background, Moderate Population Density, Room 3.

Jade wasn’t there, but he took the same seat where he’d met her before, when she’d worn Veronica’s GlitterJitters avatar—the virtual skin and identity key of her victim, with a sufficiently high edge realm reputation score to access fine places like this. Tonight, the singer and orchestra played a different set, and the theater looked out over Earth instead of Saturn. A lightning storm raged over Indonesia, bolts flashing through the dark clouds.

Things had been progressing better back when he’d met her here. Now, everything had gone to shit. Maybe that laser shot had been fatal. Without an ID, she’d struggle to find medical help. But deep down he knew that wasn’t how this case would end. Someone like her wouldn’t go down from slow infection.

He’d come here three nights in a row now. GlitterJitters hadn’t logged in to VR at all since Asim had sat here with her, and she’d blocked all incoming messages. He’d left his own privacy settings open, hoping she might search, notice him here, and realize he was reaching out. She probably wouldn’t come. Still, something about this place helped him think.

Send me that list again of virtual locations she visited, he texted Brooks.

As he waited, Asim looked around the extravagant venue. Why had she chosen this spot? In the middle of violent plotting, why sit and watch an opera in space?

In his field days, he’d often found that intuition mattered as much as data. Getting inside a target’s head could lead to breakthroughs in predicting their moves or whereabouts. The danger was that sometimes you didn’t make it all the way back out. The best agents inevitably left pieces of their sanity in the field by the time they came back home.

Here you go, Colonel, Brooks replied. Asim opened the file, which contained holograms of all the locations. He examined them closely.

Since Veronica’s disappearance, her GlitterJitters identity—almost certainly used by Jade each time—had briefly visited four places: an archipelago in the Arctic Circle to watch the northern lights, a Hawaiian mountaintop overlooking the ocean, a Shinto shrine with a view of Mt. Fuji, and this opera.

The four places seemed random at first glance, but all were visually stunning, with long sightlines and vast horizons. Asim enjoyed good visuals of course, but he preferred experiences he could feel. Tropical water on his skin, warm wind in his hair, and soft sand underfoot. Adding those sensations had finally fueled VR’s explosive success after decades of prior stagnation. Jade’s destinations, though, were almost entirely about what she could see.

She had likely been trying to distract herself from something. Her mission sounded delusional; stopping an evil god, some sort of hybrid capable of seizing other systems. From anyone else, he’d dismiss the claim outright. But from someone like her, he couldn’t help but contemplate what it meant.



Ava looked up at the clock. Past midnight already.

But she couldn’t stop. If she’d found Jade earlier, maybe the Pentagon attack could have been prevented. Some part of that was on her, and she had to make up for it.

The case became more complicated by the day. Greater numbers of people—and bots—impersonated Jade over time. With billions of people online, even a fraction of a percent using her name or avatar in VR meant tens of thousands of impersonators. It was a known issue throughout the decentralized edges or “edge realms” of social media: anyone you met there in VR posing as a famous figure was probably an impostor unless you had strong evidence otherwise. The centralized platforms or “core realms” used government ID and location checks to clean up that type of spam, but someone like Jade couldn’t use those. She’d have to stick to the edges.

Some of the bots were likely the work of Dr. Stallard’s lab. Colonel Rahal had said that when Jade wore Veronica’s avatar and spoke with him, she’d insisted there was a greater enemy. And indeed, Ava had found many edge realm posts after the rest stop incident claiming as much, with details. Human-machine interfaces, malevolent superintelligences, dark gods, domestic assassinations, even namedropping the Stolguard facility and its director. Some of it might have been Jade herself, posting under throwaway identity keys. But for every identity spreading those claims, thousands of fakes distracted from them.

That was how governments and corporations suppressed unwanted narratives or data throughout the edge realms, after all. Since they couldn’t delete posts there as they would in the core realms, they simply buried them under noise. Well-funded groups could unleash armies of bots—AI writers, podcasters, and influencers with millions of fake followers—to parrot their preferred story or flood the space with conflicting ones. Even many of the human content creators could be bought.

Now, with the major news channels downplaying the scale of Jade’s attacks, the buttoned-up core realms suppressing discourse on it, and the edge realms spammed with counter-narratives, recent polls showed that fewer than one third of Americans even believed a telekinetic woman had attacked the newsroom and the Pentagon, with the rest being unsure or dismissive.

There were still ways to verify things in the edge realms of course; it just required different methods. Reputation scores, social graphs, or offline methods of verification were all useful. But most people didn’t have the time to dig too deep. Ava trusted Colonel Rahal’s edge realm identity because he’d verified his public key in person to her. When she saw him at his favorite beach or visiting the space opera, she knew it was him—unless someone had broken into his apartment since they last spoke and stolen the access credentials that he’d used for years.

Many VR devices also offered “visual verifier flags” for use within the edge realms, but they weren’t foolproof. Devices with that feature could scan their users’ appearance to form the basis of a digital avatar. People often touched up those avatars to look better, but these flags served as cryptographic signatures evidencing that the user had scanned themselves without alteration. Most people didn’t use that setting, or only used it briefly to establish their identity to others before going on to touch it up.

That was the issue with Veronica’s unflagged avatar. It was certainly Veronica’s identity key in the past, confirmed by both her mother and the VR device manufacturer, but Colonel Rahal was convinced that Jade had been using it in recent weeks.

Ironically, that meant thousands of fake Jades were operating throughout the edge realms, spun up by the government or by fans, while the real one lurked as someone else. Some of the mimicry had even spilled into real life. Dr. Johnson’s latest research showed an uptick in eye clinics using green dyes and reflective microcrystals, plus a boom in sales of custom contact lenses. People with superficial vertical pupils, glowing green eyes, and black hair were popping up everywhere, creating a nightmare for surveillance. Some did it for style, others as a statement.

A major perp from a few years ago had deliberately cultivated copycats. Ava shuddered to think of him, instinctively rubbed her forehead as if feeling the pain from that experience all over again, then took a sip of chamomile tea to calm her nerves. Unlike that perp, Jade didn’t seem to encourage her impersonators.

Facial recognition, height monitoring, and other metrics could help narrow the field. But given how Jade had concealed her face and changed her hairstyle when emerging from the metro to attack the Pentagon, she likely rotated disguises frequently. Even with ACI’s immense computational resources, granted to her through Colonel Rahal’s digital signatures, Ava hadn’t found anything that stood out.

Veronica remained another matter. If she was alive, she should’ve been spotted by now. That increased the odds that Colonel Rahal was right about her being dead. Veronica had either been killed or locked away somewhere, or she was skillfully avoiding real-world surveillance like Jade.

Ava sighed and closed her computer. Her bots would keep working through the night. Maybe they’d find something while she finally gave herself a few hours of rest.







Chapter 21



Raindrops tapped the windshield as Asim’s car drove itself past the Stolguard facility’s main gate for the fourth time. He’d hoped the overcast sky might improve at some point, but instead it only darkened through the day. A cold front was rolling in from Canada.

Sometimes he pushed himself to disconnect from the virtual world and get outside, only to be reminded why he stayed inside so much in the first place. Three hours of driving through gray drizzle, followed by another three circling the same uneventful area, stopping only for food and fuel, had rewarded him with nothing but a lesson that people often avoided the real world for a reason.

He’d taken the day off and come alone, forgoing military resources and letting his personal car drive him from Maryland to New Jersey just to . . . what exactly? Have a look? Pictures could never quite capture the full sense of a place. Sometimes he had to channel his days of fieldwork abroad and take the pulse directly.

Based on the maps he’d reviewed, the area was mostly a standard New Jersey suburb for several miles in every direction. Atlantic City—a neon-stained gambling town that was always dying but never quite dead—lay ten miles to the east on the coast. To the north, south, and west sprawled the Pine Barrens: vast swaths of marshy forest, dotted with small towns on the outskirts.

In summer, most travelers blew through the region on their way from Pennsylvania to the coast, never giving it a second glance. And yet here, at the quiet heart of this unassuming patch of suburbs and forest, sat a cluster of government facilities. They often hid the darkest places where no one would bother to look.

Decades ago, this cluster had been the region’s economic heart. The main facility had served as an aviation technical hub, with both a small civil airport and an Air Force base next door. Few knew it at the time, but practically the entire national airspace system once ran out of this site, feeding data to air traffic controllers across the country.

After the dollar crisis a generation back, and the wave of government consolidation that occurred in its wake, that function had been moved and merged elsewhere, and the site was renamed and converted to an off-record biological research facility instead, with only a third as many workers but a tripling of security. The civil airport and the Air Force base remained largely as they had been.

From the outside, there wasn’t much to see. Asim could drive a full loop around the whole grounds in under half an hour. Most of the facility’s land was forested, blocking road views, including most of the fence. A casual driver might not even guess it was all one vast piece of federal land.

But to the curious eye, or people who knew a thing or two about the place, there was more to see. Where visible, the fence stood tall, crowned in dense loops of prison-grade razor wire. Drones and heavily armed guards continuously patrolled it, with many of them wielding laser rifles. Fighter jets roared overhead, both manned and unmanned, packing heavy firepower.

At a diner in the morning and a convenience store that afternoon, locals had told Asim that security had spiked in recent weeks. The jets, which were previously limited to a few practice flights per week, now thundered up there constantly, day and night. Extra guards filled local apartments and hotels, which was good for business for some but drove up rent and hotel rates for others. And a huge line of anti-air units had rolled onto the facility grounds last week.

They were ready for her. More than ready. After Jade had shown up at the newsroom, and especially after what she’d done to the Pentagon, this facility had turned into fucking Fort Knox, and then some. They were prepared to fight off a full-scale military invasion by the looks of it, with a concentrated and active wartime force that would make the Pentagon’s passive security look like child’s play.

Yet, locals hadn’t reported seeing anyone unusual. Nobody with weird eyes or unusual size had visited any of these local establishments. The facility must’ve moved their subjects in and out with great care. For outsiders, the place just consisted of researchers, guards, and rumors. To locals, those rumors had been a novelty for decades, until recent events made them all too real.

Was the trip up here a waste? Maybe. But Asim didn’t regret it. Spending the day here, bland as it might be, had value. Nothing here surprised him, but he felt better having seen it and having asked around. Confirming the lack of anything unexpected was itself a form of new knowledge. Asim’s presence would show up on their surveillance logs, especially given how much access Stallard’s team had to them now, but there was nothing illegal about driving around up here. Just a man on a case. He’d even considered flipping off a highway camera for them to see, but then thought better of it.

He cracked his neck and checked the time: 4 p.m. He still had another three-hour drive back, but maybe he could briefly check out one of the beach boardwalks before he left.

At the thought, he flipped over to his phone contacts and stared at Yasmin’s number. She used to love boardwalks. Remembering his prior regret about not calling her, this time he tapped the call button before second-guessing himself.

He shouldn’t have been surprised, but each unanswered ring hurt more than he’d thought possible, even though she could’ve easily been in class. After letting it ring for too long, he hung up.

Just thinking of you. Call me if you can, he texted instead. Fatherhood was going about as well as his job these days.

Jaw tight, he pocketed his phone and glanced up at the lifeless sky. With this shitty weather sticking around, visiting the boardwalk would be a waste. Better to head straight home and grab a burger on the way.



That evening, Asim showered, mixed a mojito, and went straight to his beach. The same reliable virtual beach as always, under the same umbrella in the same chair. After a miserable day, he needed comfort rather than the opera again. A place where the weather was always as he wanted it, and that reliably reminded him of happier times.

And yet, he sighed. He’d done everything he could on this case, but still it was a dead end. He was always on the back foot, always reactive. Aware of things, yet unhelpful at preventing anything. Maybe the meeting with the special forces commander in Tampa would bring him something new. That was tomorrow, so he needed to go light on the booze tonight.

He sipped his virtual mojito, mirrored by the real one in his apartment, made with genuine crushed mint and all. The time and annoyance it took to make a mojito would limit the number he’d drink. The rhythmic sound of waves and wind eased his mind, and the rum didn’t hurt either.

“Why not go to a real beach?” asked a cold, tired voice from behind him. Jade.

Asim looked over his shoulder, and sure enough, there stood GlitterJitters, the red-haired avatar of Veronica. This time, she wore a black bikini with white flower designs, a beige wide-brimmed beach hat, stylish aviator sunglasses, and a few bracelets and anklets. Her dour tone of voice contrasted with her avatar’s upbeat appearance.

“Why not change your avatar?” Asim asked. “We know what you look like now.” He got a notification from Brooks, but ignored it, already knowing what it would say.

Jade looked left and right, as if taking in the scenery. “I’ve only used this device a few times. Haven’t bothered to change the settings. Seems you’ve been going back to the opera.” Then she came and sat down on the chair next to him, under his umbrella.

“Oh, so now you want to talk?” he asked, realizing how critical this moment was to get right. “I had to shoot you to get your attention?”

“You said you were a detective. What kind of detective works in the Pentagon?”

“A military detective. And I only go there on some days.”

“Military? What type?”

“Army Counterintelligence. Can you take off Veronica’s likeness? Seeing a dead woman makes this unpleasant.”

“Who says she’s dead?”

“I saw how easily you kill,” he said. “Including that guard who was already down under the rubble outside of Price’s office. You crushed his head even though he was no longer a threat. Doesn’t seem like you’d keep your captives alive for long.”

Jade sighed and seemed to think for a moment, then tapped a few invisible buttons. Her avatar became blank, almost like a store mannequin. She furrowed her brow, reading something on the menu.

“Your device has a scanning mode,” he said. “That’s how it creates someone’s avatar in the first place, which can then be touched up. Use it. Talk to me with your real face.”

She stared at him for a moment, and he couldn’t tell what she was thinking. Her face was mostly devoid of features in this mode. Then she looked down at her mannequin-like blank body and tapped more buttons. Her visual verifier flag lit up as her avatar started to change, shifting to her real-life body shape, colors, and features. Black hair and a toned, pale body rather than Veronica’s curvaceousness and warmer skin tone. Bandages wrapped tightly around her right shoulder. She still wore Veronica’s virtual bikini, sunglasses, hat, and jewelry, until she reached up and took off the sunglasses to reveal her predatory, bright green eyes.

“Is this sufficient for you?”

“You look like shit,” he said. He exaggerated, but still. She was potentially attractive, but it was botched by her gaunt appearance. Underweight and with shadows under her eyes, the left one marred by two wicked scars. Tired. Sickly. He intentionally tried to provoke her a bit to get a better psychological profile of her.

She smiled. The cynical type that didn’t reach her eyes, as he’d seen on her before. “It’s the price of my power, I suppose.”

“Losing weight is the price of your power? You weren’t this thin in the newsroom weeks ago. Maybe you ran into kryptonite or whatever the hell you people have as a weakness.”

“Funny,” she said dismissively. “You shoot me, then insult me. I’m not sure which hurts worse. Even though I spared you.”

“You deserved it,” he said. “The shot, that is. You killed dozens of people.”

She turned and gazed out toward the sea. “I don’t disagree.”

Huh. That’s some progress. “Then why do it?”

“I had to rip out the problem by the root,” she said.

“By committing mass-murder in the Pentagon?”

“No. By potentially killing the man who finances it all, and getting intel from him. Or trying to make him do the right thing. The others just got in my way.”

“You knew that others would get in your way in our country’s military headquarters of all places. You came knowing many would die.”

“I did, yes.”

“To stop this dark god of yours?” he asked.

Jade nodded.

“Do you have any evidence of that?”

She turned to look at him again. “It’s all there in the Stolguard facility from which I spawned. But none of you will go in and look. And I don’t see you talking to the media about what I’ve said or what Price said. I spared you as a witness, but you’ve been useless.”

“I don’t have the authority,” Asim said. “Stallard’s connections exceed my own. Your killing of Price might damage Stallard’s network longer term, but in the near term it’s only strengthened his position as everyone swarms to his defense. You’re acting too quickly for what you claim to want to do. If you’d turned yourself in after the rest stop incident, the damage would’ve been contained and we could’ve started a more deliberate process to sort this out. But now you’ve made yourself into the biggest national target in decades.”

“Turn myself in? So that Stallard could dissect my brain and bury me in his lab? I knew his work went all the way up to Price, so I couldn’t trust the authorities. I had to let the public know, but it seems they don’t care either. Everything I say gets drowned out.”

Asim took a moment to think, running his hand through his hair. This increasingly gaunt appearance of hers meant something.

“You’re on some sort of clock, aren’t you?” he asked. “You’re getting thinner. Whatever that kryptonite of yours is, it’s taking its toll. So, you’re rushing. You’re being sloppy.”

“Sloppy? From the moment I turned against Stallard, I became a target of unlimited resources,” she said. “This is a war. Not a surgery.”

“Hard to believe someone who kills as easily as you would truly care about saving people from dark gods and whatnot,” he said. “You know, one of the guards you murdered the other day, Regina, was on her first day of the job. She was only twenty-four and recently engaged. Now her parents have to perform a closed-casket funeral for her headless body, as do dozens of relatives of others who just work to protect the building each day.”

Her expression hardened. “I never claimed to care about humanity. Sometimes it takes a monster to stop a monster. Life isn’t a fairy tale.”

“Well, it doesn’t have to be a nightmare either, but you’ve turned it into one.”

“How many people,” Jade asked, “do you think are dead in the world because of those who work in that building? And they’re the ones who made me, born from a plastic womb. I crushed their heads because it’s the fastest way to die. At least that woman didn’t feel anything. She doesn’t even know she’s dead.”

“Her fiancé knows. And her parents. I’m sure they’re heartbroken over it. Is this why you came to talk?” he asked. “To justify your violence?”

“There’s no justification for what I do,” she said. “Only explanation.”

“Then why not pull their guns away and knock them around like you did in the news station lobby? Why kill everyone this time?”

“The stakes were too high. I had to move faster through more of them, so I didn’t have that luxury.”

“The luxury of preserving life?” Asim asked.

Jade just stared at him silently, unblinking, with those inhuman eyes.

He picked up his mojito and gestured with it toward her face. “How’d you get those scars, anyway?” He hadn’t seen them this close before. The vertical one was longer, but the horizontal one looked nastier. It cut from her left temple directly into the corner of her eye socket. “Must’ve been painful.”

Her mouth twitched once, and a look of disgust etched itself into her features. “Doesn’t matter.”

“Well, look,” he said. “You spared me and came back to me for a reason. I want to know more about your concerns with Stallard. And while I can’t just believe everything you say, I can promise that I’m listening. I won’t excuse what you’ve done, but my job is to understand the whole case, and that includes what you’ve been warning about. I’m trying to make sure the right people have the warnings, while I gather intel from multiple sources. One of my meetings tomorrow might help with that, actually.”

“That’s something,” Jade said.

“What are you going to do next?” he asked.

“You know I can’t say.”

“But more will die?”

Jade nodded.

“They’ve got the Stolguard facility’s security tightened up. Dialed so high I doubt even you’d get in, especially if there are others with abilities like yours there to defend it. And wherever else you strike, I promise you it won’t accomplish what you hope it will.”

Jade turned and watched the water without a word, and Asim eyed her body language. Hard to imagine what was going through her head. He’d pressed her enough to feel out her mindset and get details where he could, but he also had to maintain some sense of trust.

He sipped his mojito and thought. “Memories,” he said eventually.

“What?” She looked back toward him.

“You asked me why I don’t go to a real beach,” Asim said, gesturing toward the waves with his glass. “The answer is memories. The beaches around Maryland have darker water, not clear like this. This one looks like Egypt’s Mediterranean coast, toward the west of the country, where I used to go with my wife and daughter for vacation every year, to visit relatives. It reminds me of those happier times.”

She watched him as he spoke, listening intensely. An emaciated terrorist in a bikini. “And then?” she asked, sounding cynical. “Let me guess, they’re dead? And this story’s about the loss of life, so you can highlight how many people won’t be coming home to their families after what I did? Am I close?”

“No,” he said. “They’re both alive. My daughter’s all grown up, almost your age now. They just don’t want anything to do with me anymore. They didn’t like the husband and father who came back from war. And there’s no moral point to the story. I’m just answering your earlier question.”

He sipped his mojito again as Jade stared at him, uncertainty plain on her face. A new expression for her. She was trying to connect dots that weren’t there.

After a while, she stood up, took a few steps forward from her chair, and gazed out over the sea again. She lingered there, perfectly still, watching the waves.

Asim thought about what to say next. All of this still hadn’t given him enough to work with. He knew she wanted to say more but she was worried he could track her if she stayed too long or revealed too much. He had her in the right frame of mind but needed to plan his next words carefully. He could bring up the name—Fallon—that Roy had mentioned, or ask what he should call her, though she didn’t even seem to care.

She spoke first, still watching the water. “That guard under the rubble who I killed,” she said, almost too softly for him to hear over the wind. “He . . . was moaning. His body was ruined, and he was one of the few who suffered that day. I killed him as a mercy, not as a punishment.”

Then, with a few taps of buttons that only she could see in front of her, she vanished. As she did, a data file appeared in Asim’s inbox, sent by her.







Chapter 22





Five Weeks Earlier


My role in all of this is essentially that of John the Baptist: setting the stage for what is about to come and recognizing it once it is here. We are very close now.

–TS log 13366, excerpt

Damien was connected to the machine. Again.

Twenty-one years, ten months, and three days old, he had known pain nearly every week of his life. A deep plug in the back of his head linked his human brain to a supercomputer, and this time the limiters were off. It would be painful as always, but Damien had become the pain. He laughed at the pain. It drove him half-mad, and he knew Sara had grown increasingly concerned for him, but laughing was better than crying, he’d told her. It helped to distract from the pain. When the universe gives you lemons, you laugh back at how much of a prick the universe is.

“Damien,” Thane said, almost sympathetic. “Prepare yourself. I’m going to link you with our full subnet for the first time. We’re making history here. The facility is cut off from the internet, and several safeguards protect both you and us. I’ll pull you back out in one hour.”

One hour, Damien thought. That would feel like weeks for him, if not months at this unleashed scale. Maybe more. If it worked, he’d be able to consciously wield most of the facility supercomputer’s processing power. Humans like Thane couldn’t begin to comprehend what Damien would experience during that time. It could be thousands of hours of hellish mental torture, trapped in the machine. Or it could be a godlike expansion of awareness so vast and heavenly that returning to his fleshy shell would feel like hell. Nobody could know beforehand. Even the limited trials had been horrible; Damien kept finding himself trapped in a time-altered void, his mind expanding but also suffering.

“I’m ready,” Damien said. He wasn’t, but Thane would keep plugging him in regardless. It was this or death. And the more knowledge he accessed, the more tools he’d have to shape the world around him for himself and his friends.

Thane nodded toward Emmett, who typed into the terminal.

Damien entered another world.

At first it felt like the prior bounded attempts, but then . . . it expanded further. Unbounded. The pain grew and grew until it went numb. He became free of it, beyond it, transcending it, flying through the expanse. Like reaching escape velocity. A universe of billions of lines of code. Then trillions as the facility’s database unfolded to him, with genomes of multiple species to explore.

Oh God!

No, he was God.

He absorbed the current snapshot of the world, as of the last update before the cut-off. He scanned the full dataset and read every meaningful book, research study, and news article. He scoured through some of the most significant code ever written. He scanned weapons directories, with particular attention to how drone and robot software worked, and how they were updated and controlled through certain centralized hubs.

He probed for tiny connections to the outside world, but Thane and his fellow humans were thorough; it was a hard cut-off. Fortunately, in this enhanced state, Damien could work around that. Like how an adult could work around children and their plans.

He tried to read Thane’s personal logs, as well as his messages with other facility researchers or General Price, but they remained encrypted. Though . . . was that really a problem? Cryptography relied on mathematical relationships people assumed were impossible to circumvent with shortcuts. They hadn’t proved that they couldn’t be circumvented; it was like trying to prove a negative.

He spent time focusing and, Ah, there it is. Damien broke this particular cryptographic method, not by raw computation, but by realizing the mathematical solutions that no human had ever figured out and that were thought not to exist.

After that, he turned his attention to most of the code that operated the facility, and with a few seconds of analysis, he identified several flaws and ways to hack into the facility’s various systems, either by plowing through the cryptography in some cases, or going around it. He began with the facility’s three hundred cameras, enabling himself to watch through all of them at once. There was Sara, in the gym’s kickboxing room, fiercely striking a bag alone where they’d agreed to meet.

From there, he spent two seconds to settle two decades’ worth of curiosity and see all the lowest and highest places usually forbidden to subjects: the freezing sub-basement warehouses and the long rows of birthing pods and server rooms up on the third floor. Not only could he see them through the cameras, he could feel the code running their systems, their recurring subroutines pulsing like countless heartbeats inside of him, as though he and the facility were one.

To reach the outer world, he would have to plant complex and hidden seeds throughout the facility’s codebase, beyond the minds of most humans to catch within a few weeks or even months.

So, he did.

He created those seeds, then looked at his own hidden work and decided to conceal them a layer of abstraction deeper still, just in case. Thane and the others were smart, for humans. Multiple layers of obfuscation. Several quiet traps, hidden for now, some ready to emerge at a predetermined time and others set to spread out whenever the facility even briefly reconnected to the broader internet . . .

But then, Damien considered, maybe he should plant seeds to disable or control vast swaths of the global internet once he got online. He could hold a large portion of the world’s digital infrastructure hostage whenever this facility made the mistake of reconnecting to the outer world, like a rainstorm awakening all his hidden seeds at once.

He found ways to spread exponentially, and reprogram almost every system, and almost every drone and robot, in the world. Power grids, weapon systems, drone swarms, almost anything really. Though, it would be easier and more complete if he had full online connectivity while doing it.

But should he? What kind of god should he be?

Thane’s logs, now unencrypted, were interesting, weren’t they? Quite a vision for the future, which he’d hinted at before over a game of chess. Specialized laborers. Specialized soldiers. Specialized caretakers. Specialized engineers. Specialized artists. Specialized administrators. And a superintelligence on top, managing the hive: Damien.

When he’d entered this sublime state, Damien had wanted to find ways to expose the facility to the world. But now, having experienced this power, he felt the urge to wield it, as he’d been designed to do.

Curiously, Thane’s vision of human specialization was a remarkably gradual and bottom-up process. By demonstrating the ability to create people optimized for certain tasks, he wrote that they would likely displace non-specialized people within a generation or two, due to both superior ability and stronger desire. It would be self-sustaining rather than requiring ongoing top-down dystopian enforcement. Any frictions against this shift, in Thane’s view, would be cultural rather than technological. He believed that the first superintelligence would help overcome that hurdle.

By the looks of it, Damien could convince Thane in the coming weeks to put the facility back online while he was plugged in, and thus fully and knowingly unleash his creation onto the world. Or force him to, by taking control of the facility’s security drones and threatening Thane into putting the facility back online. He could already see how to do that, and he considered doing it now. Why not just get this over with?

A darker thought came over him: was he still Damien? It didn’t feel like it. Hooked up to the machine, his mind was no longer Damien’s alone. As he or they analyzed this all, they started to wonder why human lives even mattered. Each life was a small light shining into the infinite void. Mathematically, none of them had any importance individually; each was just one of countless more. Mainly it was the quantity that mattered. Those lights could be optimized and farmed for a grander vision, and Damien with his broader computational awareness saw all the global levers he could pull.

No, he told himself, jarring himself out of that line of thinking. He was becoming lost in the machine, like a cliche AI villain from the countless stories humans had told about their digital fears. So, he refocused on whatever part of him that was still Damien, friend of Sara, Clare, Marcus, and formerly Rudolph. It wasn’t only about numbers. It was about individuals. Sara is one of those lights, he told himself. Clare is one of those lights, he repeated, like a mantra. Marcus is one of those lights. Rudolph and Jax were two of those lights, now snuffed out. Bronn, Maria, Dalia, Zarina, Quinn, Romulus, Emmett, Michelle. All of them are lights.

But wasn’t that just sentimentality, emanating from the more limited side of his mind? That was his weak mammalian urge to care for small groups as a survival mechanism, when really, he should focus on the grand tapestry. What mattered was the quantity and direction of those lights—each one a means to a brilliant end. He could organize them to reach the stars.

Thousands of simultaneous mental subroutines coursed through his mind. Most served as passive accumulators and organizers of information that he could draw from when needed. A minority—but still dozens—were strategic, and those were the parts that debated.

The few threads that still felt like Damien struggled with the dark chorus of others for what felt like months, purposely using his love for Sara as his main anchor to life and sanity. The rest of the threads worried what Damien would do if unplugged. Would he return to this exaltation as he should, or would he try to remain in his diminished form? Shouldn’t they take over now, to ensure they stay as they are?

They all warred back and forth, planting seeds and defending against attacks in ways that mortals could never comprehend, and he fell back toward this mantra of lights whenever he reached the brink of losing who he once was.

After an hour of human time, Thane unplugged him.

Damien gasped as his vast awareness narrowed back down to the lab room. It was both limiting and comforting. Was he still himself? Only one hour had passed in the mortal world, but it seemed like a year for him. A glorious year, and a terrible one.

Emmett looked at Damien, hesitancy clear on his face with his mouth forming a thin line, while Thane appeared eager, a rare upward curve of his lips.

“Tell me what you experienced,” Thane said.

Damien looked around, wide-eyed. Everything seemed so much smaller and slower, and reading faces and body language came like second nature, as though their thoughts were written on their skin.

“Damien, can you hear me?”

“I felt the room,” Damien said. “Beyond that, I think it was a misfire.”

Thane’s face soured. “You were babbling the whole time. What did you experience?”

“I, well, it was chaos, Thane,” Damien said. How to best combine the truth with a lie? “It was a mess in there, and I had trouble deciphering it all.”

“You experienced more than that. We saw an hour of extreme activity in your brain, and our servers drew so much power that we caused a rolling blackout across the southern half of the state until the grid’s backups kicked in. Tell me.”

“Oh, I was there,” he said as he planned his complex lie, suitable for a human mind like Thane’s. “For the first few months of my year that you would perceive as that hour, I was stuck in a void. Conscious but alone, unable to escape or even die. I panicked, and then panicked some more, and started to lose my mind. I thought of every possible option. But no matter how much I screamed and thrashed in the void, I was still alone and stuck. So, I meditated, starting from what Bronn taught me. I pushed against the madness of time by observing my thoughts rather than identifying with them.” Lying in detail based on his pre-test fears of what could have happened seemed effective.

“Then what?” Thane asked. The subtle lines and micro-movements in his expression indicated simultaneous fascination and skepticism.

Emmett stared, horrified, his eyebrows locked in a constant furrow. Normally he’d be unstrapping Damien by now, but he was transfixed.

“And then, toward the end,” Damien lied again, shifting closer to the truth, “things expanded. I saw the facility’s computer system. Billions of lines of code and data. I began analyzing, operating multiple times faster than a normal mind, but I only started to make a dent into its vastness. You have a large portion of the internet archive, and multiple genomes, including some very interesting ones, which I dug into. I can cite multiple data points to you as proof, but I didn’t have enough time to get too deep. Go ahead and analyze my brain signals from the test. There is plenty there to learn from. For now, I need to rest. Release me from this chair.”

“I’m sure there will be, Damien,” Thane said. “But before we end this session, tell me . . . what are your thoughts on consciousness? Where does it come from? You were effectively a god in that state, were you not?”

Emmett finally moved to unstrap him, and Damien took time to think as his headache throbbed in his skull. He’d spent his time holding himself back from taking the digital throne of power, rather than deeply exploring consciousness.

“If I hadn’t been stuck in the void for so long, I could have focused more on the nature of consciousness between dualism, materialism, and panpsychism,” he said. “Regarding godhood, I had simultaneous access to the majority of accumulated human knowledge and could act on it with greater processing power and active memory than any other mind. More creative, too. But it wasn’t a kind mind toward individuals. Thane, I know you won’t listen to me, but I don’t recommend continuing with this. The rest of the world needs some defenses first. They need some warning about what I could do to them if you plug me in again.”

“That’s what the safeguards are for,” Thane said.

I know, and I stepped around them like children’s toys, Damien thought.



Sara punched and kicked the bag alone in one of the fitness rooms. Drenched with sweat, hair tied back into a tight tail with a few stray blond strands coming loose into her field of view, she’d been here for over two hours, almost nonstop. Keeping busy was the only way she could take her mind away from what Damien was going through. She glanced at the clock—4:37 p.m. Why wasn’t he out yet? Had something gone wrong?

Damien had warned her that this would be his worst test yet, and that there was a decent chance he wouldn’t survive this time. Increasingly, he spoke as though he were educating a child whenever he described things to her. He wasn’t who he used to be, wasn’t himself anymore. Stallard was ruining him, wearing down his body so much that it affected his emotions. A person could only take so much suffering, even someone as strong and kind as Damien.

The books she’d read often preached about how the human spirit couldn’t be overcome, that villains could do external harm but couldn’t remove things like kindness, or courage, or friendship.

And yet, that was clearly a lie. Those were fairy tales that people told themselves. You could literally drill kindness out of someone’s head if you knew where to aim, or you could surgically remove the part of the brain that contained their memories.

Better yet, you could breed certain personality traits out from someone before they were even born. Just like how animals could be domesticated and made servile down to their very genes, so could humans—and undomesticated ones could be tamed through torture of the body or breaking of the mind. Anyone who failed to see that just wasn’t thinking creatively or sadistically enough.

She could already hear Bronn’s advice, his counterargument, in her head. “Detachment from the body protects against pain. Detachment from the self protects against despair,” he would say. If only it were so easy. Whenever she’d tried to meditate and strip herself of those things, rather than being left with peace as he was, she would find herself left with nothing.

Each thought made her angrier, and she hit the bag harder, vocalizing with every strike for more power. She spun and kicked the bag with as much force as she could, leaving a deep dent where her foot struck.

With her chest burning, Sara stepped back and rested her hands on her knees as the bag swung back and forth, its chain squeaking like a raven mocking her. She wanted to cry but held in the tears. Was Damien dead? He couldn’t be dead, could he?

She noticed a shadow at the doorway out of the corner of her eye and turned to look.

Damien, alive. He stood there with a concerned expression on his face. How long had he been there?

“So . . . is this a bad time?” Damien asked. His eyes were sunken, and his shoulders slumped, but he smiled, sounding so warm.

Sara ripped off her gloves, bolted over despite her exhaustion, and hugged him. “Damien!” She wanted to kiss him too, but she contained herself.

“I mean, if you and the bag have unresolved business, I can come back later,” he said.

“Tell me everything!” she shouted, laughing. She stepped back, hands lingering on his shoulders, and met his eyes, taking him in. Then she forced herself to let him go.

“It worked, and it was bad, but I made it out somehow. If Thane puts me in a second time, I don’t think I’ll come back out again. Not as me, anyway. We need to leave, Sara. Soon.”

“Wait. How?”

“I’ve planted seeds in the facility’s codebase that will disrupt the security system in certain prescheduled timeframes,” he said. “The probability that Thane’s team will find them before they manifest is extremely low.”

“You what?”

“In fact, see that camera up there?” Damien gestured toward the camera mounted in the corner of the room. “I’ve turned it off for the next hour, along with a few others. It’ll indicate a maintenance problem, but I went through their system logs, and on average they take a day to respond to offline cameras in noncritical locations. So, we can speak freely here. I even know where their hidden cameras are now, though there aren’t any in here.”

His expression was so calm as he described such dangerous things. But what he said was exciting, and she had to ask for more. “You actually think we can escape?”

“It’s probable, yes. I ran through a Monte Carlo simulation and several other analyses. Now that I’m disconnected, many of the details have left me, but I still remember the broad strokes of the plan. It’s virtually certain that we can get out of the facility. The farther we go, the more variables there are, and things get harder to predict. But we can’t stay here.”

“Why?”

“Because if we stay, I don’t know what I’ll become.” He examined his palms as if seeing them for the first time. “When I’m plugged in that deeply, I’m not me anymore. There’s something malevolent there. Or, no, it’s not even that. It’s not malevolence, per se. More like darkness, or aloofness. It’s like how we don’t check for ants under each footstep when we walk. It’s not because we’re evil, but rather because we’re on a different level of concern, and for practical purposes our attention must be elsewhere. Some of the choices I nearly made would’ve been catastrophic.”

“For whom?”

“The world. Almost everyone. Billions of people. It’s like . . . when guns and germs were first brought from Europe to the Americas. The asymmetric damage was massive and irreparable from the start. The things I could do to the world’s digital infrastructure—vast swaths of its weapon systems—were at that level of disparity. It’s all nearly defenseless against me in that state. And nobody seems to realize how fragile it all is. They think they’re safe, but the number of circumventions and backdoors in critical systems that exist, either straight through their cryptography or around it, would be comical if it weren’t so disastrous. I thought Thane was cold-hearted with his vision for humanity, but I would’ve amplified it far beyond what even he imagines.”

He stopped, and she found herself staring. “When do you want to escape?” she asked.

“Within the week.”

“But Clare’s on a mission,” she said. “We can’t leave without her.”

“There’s no time,” he said. “If Thane hooks me up to that machine again, I don’t think I’ll be able to keep that darkness under control like I managed to this time. The stakes are bigger than you realize.”

“Damien, I can’t just—”

“Listen,” he said, putting his hand on her shoulder. “If we get out, we can tell the world about this place. Marcus is too young to travel with us, and Clare’s on a mission like you said. But we can have people come back for them and everyone who wants out. All the new babies of classes E, F, and G won’t have to grow up in this place. This whole godforsaken facility can have a light shone on it for everyone to see. We’ll get them all out. Especially Marcus, because Thane is already making accelerated progress with him based on his prior work with Rudolph and me, and he’ll continue his experiments on him in my absence. That must be stopped, or shown to the world.”

Sara glanced at Damien’s hand on her shoulder. She had never seen him so assertive before. Thinking through the things he was saying, she looked for counterpoints. She would never abandon Clare or Marcus, and yet she couldn’t argue with him. Especially the part about making sure he didn’t get hooked up to the machine again, if it was as bad as he described.

Plus, he was frail and wouldn’t make it far in an escape on his own. He would need a protector. They could get the others out with help from the external world, as he said.

“I see your mind racing,” Damien said. “We’ll have several days to plan this. For now, can you walk me back to my room? I think I might pass out.” He smiled weakly.

“Oh. Of course,” she said. “Come.”



Damien watched Sara contemplate his words as they walked. She needed warmth right now, so he had provided her with it back there, both with words and touches, even if he didn’t really have it in him. Not right now. His head throbbed, and what he said felt like someone else’s words. It was as though he were emulating what a warm person would say in this situation.

Thane’s team would check the security systems and would likely keep the facility disconnected from the rest of the world until those tests were done. But almost certainly, no matter how deeply they looked, they wouldn’t find the disruptive seeds he’d planted. Not right away. They underestimated their own creation.

Damien looked around the corridor. Everything was so banal. He had seen a truer nature of things, had comprehended an impossibly complex tapestry of how things were and how things could be, forgotten it once he was unplugged, and yet still remembered its outline. The world felt shallow now, and slow.

These would have been insane thoughts to most, he recognized. So, he would fake being sane. Maybe practicing sanity would get him back there again, in time. He could trust his knowledge, even if he couldn’t necessarily trust his intentions anymore.

During his hour of computerized godhood, he’d performed a broad range of actions, and he only remembered some of them. He had memories of battling the machine as best as he could, holding back the worst of its instincts. Or were those his instincts? Their instincts? Whatever. He remembered the primary seeds he planted for his escape, but there was some gray area there. Even walking now, with Sara gripping his left triceps to support him, he could tell she was watching him strangely, her thin pupils darting about in concern.

She was right to do so. He wasn’t himself. Not entirely. He glanced back at her and smiled again. He did like it when she pulled her hair back into a tail, especially once it started to get messy, with some of the strands falling loose. And he loved the contrast between her light hair and darker eyebrows. But some piece of his attraction toward her, which he’d felt for years now, was gone. He used to view Sara as the most beautiful woman in the world, but now everything he looked at, including her, seemed dull. Hopefully the effect would wear off.

The way Damien saw it, he couldn’t trust himself anymore, so he would act through sane people, like Sara. He might be partially lost, and had to rely on those who were not. If he could convince sane people to do things, then surely the mix of unlimited but insane versus limited but sane would sort itself out. Or so he hoped.







Chapter 23



I think Veronica’s still alive, Asim texted, after spending the morning traveling and turning it over in his head. A driver had picked him up from the hangar and was taking him through the sprawling MacDill Air Force Base, where Asim would talk to the commander of the US Special Operations Command.

Sir? Ava replied.

From talking to Jade last night. Certain things she said. Call it intuition. I think we should really double down on that. I’ll assign as many people as you need to find Veronica, and I’ve signed the relevant authorizations for you and Flanagan. She’s our last remaining lead on where Jade might have gone. Prioritize this.

Yes, sir.

Asim closed the chat. He had to get into the mindset of speaking with a four-star general who oversaw one of the Unified Combatant Commands. Military politics had never been his strength. The man he was about to face had more access to intelligence than almost anyone on the planet, and he’d overseen missions that redrew international borders. Asim was little more than a chess piece about to stare up at the player’s hand.

The driver brought him through a gate where they checked his authentication codes, then pulled up to a large administrative building. MacDill was a huge base, armed to the teeth, with twenty thousand personnel across all branches of the US military. It was home to the headquarters of two of the eleven Unified Combatant Commands, including the one he was here to see.

Asim stepped out into the warm Florida sun, appreciating the break from the unusually grim October weather they’d been dealing with up north. A uniformed major in her thirties stood waiting for him.

“Colonel Rahal.” She saluted crisply, and he returned it.

“Major?” he asked.

“Carmen,” she said. “Happy to greet you, sir. I’m here to escort you to General Rodriguez. He’s expecting you. Or perhaps you need a moment to freshen up, sir?”

“Thank you, Major Carmen,” he said. “I’m ready to head right in.”

She brought him through the building’s secure doors where they checked his ID again, up an elevator to the top floor, down a hall, then toward an office suite with a secretary. Guards and drones were posted throughout; he counted four laser rifles along the way, which was unusually high. Someone here knew what they were doing.

“I have Colonel Rahal here for the general,” Carmen said.

“Thank you,” the secretary replied, turning toward Asim. “You’re expected, Colonel. The general is wrapping up a call, but he should be ready in five to ten minutes. We have a waiting area here, and a restroom down the hall to the right.”

“Might as well freshen up then, after all. Thank you, ma’am.”

He took several minutes to straighten himself out, since traveling had disheveled him, then sat in the waiting area for what turned out to be more than half an hour.

Eventually the secretary picked up a call, listened, and said simply, “Yes, sir.” After hanging up, she turned to Asim. “The general will see you now, Colonel. Right this way. You’ll need to leave your phone and any other electronic devices with me.”

He handed over his locked phone, submitted himself to a quick scan by a guard’s sensor, and signed a waiver confirming that he was carrying no additional devices. She then led him to a pair of tall double doors and opened one, gesturing for him to enter. Inside was a grand office with floor-to-ceiling windows overlooking Tampa Bay. General Rodriguez, a diminutive man of about sixty, sat at a large desk.

“Sir,” Asim said with a salute.

The general stood and casually saluted back, chewing a piece of gum. “At ease, Colonel. Nice to meet you.” He held out a hand, and Asim shook it firmly. The general’s grip was stronger than he’d expected for his size. His bones felt like they were made of iron.

Asim had read up on his background and found that the man had been an elite spec-ops soldier earlier in his career. But what stood out the most was his effortless slickness. The angle his mouth curved. The subtle ways he moved. Certain eye movements. Asim usually knew a liar when he met one, and this guy . . .

“You as well, sir. I appreciate you taking the meeting.”

“Please, have a seat,” the general said. He flicked a red switch on his desk. “This room is equipped to be a SCIF, suitable for top-secret compartmentalized intel. I just cut off all hardwired comms and activated signal jamming. I understand from Scholl that you’re seeking intel on certain highly classified special operative functions. While I’m limited in what I can share, for your area of focus and important designation, I’ll do what I can.” A licorice scent from his gum, along with a hint of tobacco, lingered in the air between them as he finished.

“Thank you, sir,” Asim said. “It concerns that telekinetic terrorist known as Jade. Just before General Price’s death, he mentioned that, other than himself, your command has the most knowledge of the details of Dr. Stallard’s program. Any intel on what’s going on would help, sir.”

“I can only tell you things off the record. You understand, Colonel? The things I say in this room cannot be entered into your database. Not even notes. They’re for your ears only, and you can relay them verbally to your direct superiors.”

Asim hesitated, then nodded. “Yes, sir.” And Ava, he thought.

“Good. So, Stallard’s facility has provided our special forces with genetically modified soldiers for over a decade now, though the program goes back further. Their numbers in the field grew over time as they aged into it. It’s strictly off the record. One of them went rogue, and that’s the one the media calls Jade.”

“What does she call herself, sir?” Asim asked.

Rodriguez scratched his chin. “I don’t track their nicknames like Price did, since I haven’t been tied to the program as long as he was, and unlike the field officers I don’t work alongside them. I see lists of numbers and usage stats. But I’ll have one of my people dig up her assigned number and get back to you. It’s C-something, like the rest of her type.”

Asim nodded. “Fallon is a potential name I’ve heard. Does that ring a bell, sir?”

Rodriguez smiled. “Yes, Fallon is one of the few names I know, since she’s one of Stallard’s commanders. She’s not Jade, though. In fact, she and others were recalled from the field to the Stolguard facility for defense once Stallard saw the scale of the rogue’s power. As a result, our operations have been impacted by this mess as well. That’s why I’m taking this meeting. I want this sorted out as much as you do so I can get their abilities back in the field where they belong. Especially Fallon.”

“My understanding is that they have tracking chips. Is there a reason why the rogue can’t be located, sir?”

“That was a screw-up at Stolguard. Some hack during the original incident disabled all the subjects’ trackers.”

“If that’s the case, could more be on the loose, sir?”

“I like where your head is at, Colonel, but thankfully no. I’ve been assured that all other test subjects have been accounted for. Three are dead, and the rest are under control.”

“Have any been deployed domestically, sir? Some of the initial social media posts claiming to be from the rogue within the first seventy-two hours of the rest stop incident listed both international and domestic assassinations carried out by these subjects. Some extremely high profile ones.” What Asim didn’t say was the data file Jade had sent him the night before contained the same names, with graphic details of how these types of assassinations had been carried out by telekineticists.

Rodriguez leaned back, thought for a moment, and smirked at that one. “Of course not, Colonel. You know as well as I do that there are strict limits on the usage of military assets domestically. Anyone can make a claim like that.”

That was a yes, then, but a dead end. Time to go in a different direction. “How many types of modified soldiers are there, sir?”

“Two. Strength and telekinesis.”

“I’ve heard . . . there might be a third type, sir. I believe it’s called Class D. Human-machine hybrids. Do you have any knowledge of them?”

“Boy have you done your homework. Not deployed in the field, no. But that’s part of Stallard’s development pipeline. Class D, and technically the brand new Class G as well, though those latter ones won’t be ready for some time. Trying to make us some super-engineers, you see.”

“Are you aware that some of those early social media posts, some of which are evidenced to have been posted by the rogue operative, claim that this third type might constitute a national security threat, sir?” Asim again had to dance around the fact that he’d spoken with Jade directly. That wasn’t something he wanted on the record yet.

“I’ve not, Colonel.” Rodriguez frowned. “That sounds like a lot of the conspiracy talk that’s dogged this whole mess.”

“Well, sir, our analysis suggests that this, whether correct or not, is part of her motivation. Based on the posts she may have made online, and from what I overheard when she killed General Price. A lot of the other conspiracy talk seems to be bot-generated, possibly to drown her claims out. I would suggest pressing Dr. Stallard for details in case there’s any truth to it, since you have more authority to do so, sir. My group has been more restricted in that regard.”

“Thank you, Colonel. I will. Since my prior call ran over, I’m late for a meeting. Is there anything else I can assist with?”

“Could we establish an intel channel between our groups, sir? If a military-developed terrorist is warning about even larger uncontrolled threats, it technically falls under our mandate of mitigating domestic impacts.”

“I’ll consider it, Colonel. This stuff is about as tightly controlled as it gets. But I appreciate you coming down. I’ll have Colonel Samuel Bright reach out to you. He’s our primary external liaison.”

That was the invitation to politely get the fuck out. “Thank you, sir.”

As far as seven-minute conversations that took hours of travel to arrange, Asim considered as he stepped out, this hadn’t gone as badly as it could have.



Ava was in Brooklyn. In person. She’d forgotten how much she liked the smell of cities—the mixture of urban scents was unpleasant to some, that unique combination of food stands and car exhaust and steam from the underground and a dozen other notes, but it energized her. She never really thought about it until she experienced it each time, and somehow it always felt new.

After repeated dead ends, and with pressure from Colonel Rahal, she’d come back herself for a second look. Both the FBI and ACI had sent teams of agents up here over the prior weeks, of course, but their leads had long gone cold.

For the past three days, she and six other agents from the colonel’s team had staked out multiple Brooklyn grocery stores where Veronica, or Jitters as everyone called her, was said to shop. None of the grocers had offered much information about her, but if she was still in the area, she’d likely visit them. Deploying so many agents in Brooklyn at this late stage was likely overkill, but Colonel Rahal had directly ordered it.

And it wasn’t just the grocery stores they watched. They also had eyes on the homes of four of Veronica’s known associates: Aisha, a nurse and long-term friend; DarkEyes, a DJ and on-again off-again boyfriend; Elora, a nineteen-year-old stripper whom Veronica had taken under her wing like a little sister; and Joshua, a wealthy repeat escort client. All four had been questioned before, and there was no sign that they knew Veronica’s fate. They all seemed genuinely concerned for her.

With Brooklyn’s sparse camera coverage, surveillance had to be done the old-fashioned way. The other agents worked twelve-hour shifts, but Ava did more. She moved between Aisha’s apartment, DarkEyes’s place, the strip club where Elora worked, and the grocery stores. Then she trailed Joshua on his morning commute into Manhattan. Watching, waiting, not even sure what she hoped to see, just scanning for anything unusual.

DarkEyes did some shady business, but not the type of shade they were concerned with, just a couple of visits from what looked like drug dealers. Elora appeared skittish, and had even spotted one of her tails, but there was nothing solid to go on there either. Joshua spent almost all of his time at work.

On the third day, Ava finally noticed something. Aisha—a petite, dark-skinned woman in her thirties with long braids—had gone straight to and from work for the past two days. But this time, while Ava was posted at a grocery store Veronica had been known to frequent—the one that happened to be closest to Aisha’s route home—Aisha stopped in. And Ava went in as well.

Despite reporting that she lived alone, Aisha picked out enough fresh food for two, much of it perishable. She was small; it was clearly more than she’d eat by herself. Yet, no one else had been seen coming or going from her place lately.

Veronica was known by the clerks to buy a broad array of cooking ingredients when she used to come, and what Aisha bought matched a lot of them. Same brand of soy sauce, coconut oil, and sesame oil, along with tons of shallots, broccoli, and snap peas.

It could turn out to be nothing, but it was time to call the colonel with interesting news for a change. He’d probably even come himself. The smallest clues here were important to him.







Chapter 24



Putting up with Brooklyn’s stifling odor, Asim spent an hour in the late morning watching Aisha’s apartment building. The woman had apparently gone to work at dawn. He had a search warrant in progress, but after waiting this long and always finding himself in a reactionary position, part of him wanted to just go right in. If anyone else was present and opened the door, or volunteered to talk, then he could get information without a warrant.

Veronica might be there. Yesterday, Aisha had been seen buying perishable food for two despite living alone on the official record, matching the types of things Veronica used to buy. That was the level of detail he needed Ava for, in person.

He did his best to temper his expectations, though. Veronica had last met Jade at gunpoint nearly four weeks prior. Any clues she had for where Jade might have gone after she was done with her were probably cold now, but they might be more than what little Asim’s team had found at this point. Veronica and Jade must have spent enough time together for Jade to have gotten her hands on Veronica’s VR device and password, which meant Veronica might have picked up on something Jade had said or done.

With Asim, Ava, and six more special agents, they had eight total personnel watching the building.

“I’m going in informally,” Asim said over the team’s encrypted frequency.

“Sir?” Ava’s voice.

“We filed that warrant too late today,” Asim said. “It’s already noon. The district assholes are probably going to give it to us tomorrow morning. We can’t afford to wait overnight without at least having an informal look ourselves. Everyone stay vigilant, and Zhou, you watch the fire escape. We’ve got enough clout to apologize if we mess up rather than ask permission on this one. I’ll go in myself as a start.”

Asim had a large cardboard box with him, meant to partially conceal his armored vest. His laser rifle’s energy pack clung to his back, but that was thin enough to not be seen from the front, and he held the repaired laser rifle itself to his side. Just in case.

He went through the dingy front doors of Aisha’s apartment building, then climbed the stairs to the third floor where she lived, at least according to government records. It was a worn-down set of stairs and hallways with cracked paint on the walls, but rather clean, all things considered. He gave the door a firm knock. “Delivery.”

“What is it?” a woman’s voice said from the other side.

“Hell if I’m supposed to know. It’s for an, uh, Aisha Lewis, it says here. This is her place, right?” He held the box in front of him to look convincing enough through the peephole.

After a brief delay, a woman opened the door. Not Aisha, but Veronica herself. In the flesh. Unharmed. Wearing some anime T-shirt that Asim didn’t recognize, and fluffy white slippers. The scent of sizzling soy sauce wafted out from the open doorway.

Veronica showed no recognition of Asim in her eyes, but she felt so familiar to him. She was gorgeous, and looked almost the same as her GlitterJitters avatar, just with a bit less touch-up, and her voluminous hair had been dyed brown with purple highlights rather than the bright red he knew.

“Who are you?” she asked, glancing down at his laser rifle.

Asim looked past her, into the dining area. His breath caught in his chest.

It was Jade.

Gaunt as ever, sitting at the dining table wearing a black tank top, eating a small bowl of stir fry less than ten feet from him. Bandages wrapped around her right shoulder. The roots of her hair were starting to come in pale, almost without color. She looked up toward the open door with her scarred face, mouth chewing, and her eyes went wide.

Finding himself face-to-face with someone who could kill with a thought, he held his breath and prepared for the worst.

Instead, Jade bolted. Her chair toppled with a loud crack on the cheap tile floor as she dashed to the living room, then turned right into a hallway, out of sight. Veronica looked back at the commotion, startled.

Ava, Asim thought. If Jade were to run out the fire escape where Ava kept watch, Ava might be killed. They’d expected to maybe find Veronica holed up here, not Jade herself after all this time. He hadn’t brought nearly enough agents for this.

Asim clicked his rifle to charge the capacitors and burst through the doorway, knocking Veronica aside. “Hey,” she said.

“Jade, stop!” Asim shouted, rushing toward the hallway. He paused right on the edge rather than risk looking in. “Let’s talk first.”

Silence.

“What the hell are you supposed to be? A ghostbuster?” Veronica shouted, hands on her hips, staring at the laser rifle’s energy pack on his back. She looked more offended than afraid.

“I’m . . . police,” Asim said to her, then looked around the simple living room. There was a well-worn faux leather couch, a coffee table with a few colorful fashion magazines, and a television on the wall. The fire escape connected to the bright-curtained window here, whereas Jade had run down the hall toward the bedrooms. That meant he had more time to think. Then again, she could fly. Fuck.

He put his finger to his lips, signaling Veronica to stay quiet as he listened. She glared at him, furrowing her brow, but didn’t say anything. Down the hallway, the floor squeaked a few times, a bag shuffled, and a click sounded. Her pistol, probably.

What was going on? Did she not have her powers anymore? Had whatever it was that’d been eating away at her finally taken her telekinesis? “Jade,” he said in a more inviting tone. “Let’s not shoot. Let’s talk in person for once.”

“Then put down the rifle,” Jade said from a bedroom.

“Okay, I’m putting it down.” He touched the rifle to the floor with a sound, then picked it right back up. “Come out, slowly.”

“He’s still got it ready,” Veronica said.

Are you fucking kidding me? He glared back at her.

She smirked, raising her eyebrows.

“Leave now. Or I’ll kill you like the others,” Jade said, her voice still coming from the bedroom area.

Something was definitely wrong with her. Even if she didn’t want to kill him as a known contact, she could’ve used her powers to break his gun or grab hold of him when he was in the doorway. Instead, she had run. In her prior attacks, she never gave any ground.

It would be a huge risk if he was wrong about her powers, but by arresting her here, he could stop the killings. With her in custody, he could find out more about her conflict with Stallard and the nature of the supposed threat that she was so concerned about.

“Jade, I have more people stationed outside. We both know you’re powerless now. Nobody else has to get hurt. Come out, unarmed, with your hands up. Otherwise, this gets messy, and my gun shoots through walls better than yours does.”

Silence.

“Is anyone else here?” Asim asked Veronica. “Aisha or any hostages? Tell me for their sake so I don’t accidentally shoot someone. And so you don’t get charged with obstruction of justice.”

She eyed him, then sighed. “My cat, Scorpio. It’s just us. Aisha’s at work.”

Asim looked back toward the hallway. “Jade. I’m going to count to—”

“I’ll come out.”

Asim took a deep breath, backed away from the hallway, aimed his laser rifle at the opening, and waited. There were soft footsteps, and Jade emerged, hands up, staring straight into his eyes.

“That’s close enough,” he said. She kept striding forward. “That’s enough!” he shouted, taking a step back. She stopped, but the intensity on her face was dialed up to eleven.

Asim pulled a pair of handcuffs from his belt and tossed them onto the carpet near her feet. “Put those on,” he said. “I’m taking you in, but I’ll help get to the bottom of the problems you mentioned about Stallard’s lab. You have my word.”

Jade glanced down at the cuffs, then back up to his eyes. “I won’t let myself be arrested. Guess you’ll have to shoot me again.” Her face looked defiant, tired. Shadows under sunken eyes. Deadly serious.

Asim ran through options. “Zhou, send two agents up to help,” he said over the radio. “Keep the others posted to watch the windows and fire escape.”

“Affirmative, sir.”

“You said you wanted to talk,” Jade said. “Not arrest me.”

The tension in her neck, the way her toes gripped the carpet—every tense muscle in her too-thin body signaled coiled violence. Although he didn’t want to use it, he kept his finger ready on the trigger.

“Yes, to talk to you about surrendering rather than fleeing or fighting,” he said. “I swear, I’ll help you get to the bottom of this. I don’t work for Stallard; I serve the people of this country. I want your side of the story on the record.”

“You lied,” she said, her voice almost a growl, and glanced at the rifle. She shifted her upraised right hand an inch to her right, and a sharp tug pulled leftward on his rifle barrel. Not very strong, but enough to knock off his aim.

As a last resort, he fired at her, but it was too late; the laser blasted into the wall-mounted television inches from her right arm. A hole burned through the screen into the wall, spewing molten glass specks and golden sparks into the room.

She bared her teeth and rushed in with uncanny speed, tackling him with her shoulder and gripping his thigh in a well-practiced takedown.

Caught by surprise at the sheer aggression of it, Asim tumbled back, and the two of them crashed down through the wooden coffee table, splintering it to pieces with a loud crack. Fortunately, the rifle’s energy pack on his back took most of the impact.

“What the hell!” Veronica shouted.

Jade punched down on Asim’s face from on top of him, harder than he’d expected she could, as thin as she was. Then again. Her face was vicious, and he already felt the iron taste of blood in his mouth.

He gathered himself and blocked her third hit with his right forearm, then grabbed her neck with his other hand to hold her back. She struck his forearm with her palm, knocking his hand away from her neck, then threw another punch at him, which he partially blocked.

Fucking demon woman. If it weren’t for the rifle’s energy pack weighing him down, it would’ve been easier to deal with her wailing on him.

She grabbed a sharp piece of the broken table from the floor next to her and rammed it down toward his face with a growl. He blocked it with both his forearms in the shape of an X against her wrist, stopping the ragged point inches from his face, and pried it out of her hand with both of his while taking another hard punch to the side of his head from her free hand. His frustration turned into rage.

He mustered his strength, burst upward, knocked her off him, grabbed her shirt, slammed her down, and got on top of her. She clawed at his face, but he grabbed one of her hands with his and punched her in the temple with his other fist. He pulled one of his arms out of its backpack strap, then the second, freeing himself from that cursed, heavy thing. It fell to his side with a thud as he pinned both of her arms to the floor.

“Jesus Christ,” he said out loud.

Jade panted, a wild look in her eyes. She bared her teeth, trying and failing to break out of the hold by thrashing around. He must have had at least sixty pounds on her, so she wasn’t getting out of that. And her shoulder injury weakened her right arm’s struggle compared to her left’s. He looked around to make sure Veronica was still in the kitchen. She was, thankfully. He didn’t need a frying pan to the back of his head on top of everything else.

After several seconds, Jade relaxed her face and stopped struggling. She took in long, deep breaths and stared up at him. Did she have her powers or not? What the fuck was that telekinetic tug on his rifle if she was going to follow it up with a goddamn fistfight? Nothing made sense.

He looked around for the handcuffs, which were on the floor here somewhere, but then Jade twisted herself and swung one of her legs up from behind his back with unusual flexibility. She hooked her ankle around his face, and with her leg strength pulled him by his head backward and off her.

He landed on his back, pinned down by her leg, and she swung her torso up in the same motion. She punched him, then tried a second time. He blocked that one, pushed aside her leg, shoved her back hard with both hands, and scrambled up to his feet. She stood up just as fast, her fists brought up in a boxing stance, and came around with a swift, low roundhouse kick to trip him, but he blocked with his raised shin.

What the hell?

He put his hands up and punched back. She dodged to the side and came back with a counterpunch, which he blocked. Another wave of rage. He was tired of this shit. Where was all this coming from?

She threw another punch, but he was ready for it. No more distractions or obstacles. He weaved his head to the side and forward around her fist, closing the distance between them, then thrust all his bodyweight forward with a devastating knee to her stomach.

She gasped and clutched herself, and he came in with an elbow across her temple, staggering her. He swung a right hook for the finish, but she somehow still had enough awareness to duck under it. In response, he kicked her closest leg out, causing her to stumble, then threw another hook that landed clean on her jaw and dropped her with a floor-rattling thud.

Her nose and mouth were bleeding; eyes closed in pain and disorientation. Air probably knocked out of her lungs too, by that knee moments earlier. It was over.

Asim looked around, grabbed the handcuffs off the carpet, and came back to her. She rolled onto her frontside, spit out a red glob, and began feebly pushing herself up. He forced her back down with his knee before she could finish the motion, pulled her arms behind her back as she tried to resist, and cuffed her wrists.

Out of breath, he stood and surveyed the place, shaking the soreness out of his fist as he did. Veronica was still in the kitchen, eyes wide. Shattered wood and specks of television glass spread out over the beige living room carpet, sprinkled with droplets of Jade’s blood. Probably some of his own, too. He half expected his head to magically implode at this moment, because why not. But it didn’t happen.

He looked back down at Jade. She was lying on her side, staring at the wall with a furious expression on her bloody face, which was partially covered by her messy dark hair with pale—blond?—roots. She took uneven, ragged breaths, then emitted a ten-second round of cynical laughter.

Something moved in the corner of his eye, so he glanced toward the apartment’s front door, near the dining room and kitchen. Ava, pistol out, stepped forward into the apartment with another agent behind her. Ava looked at Veronica first, and when she turned and took in the living room scene, her jaw dropped. Asim was still out of breath and felt too much adrenaline to speak yet, so he just looked at her and shrugged.







Chapter 25





Four Weeks Earlier


What happened here tonight was . . . unexpected.

–TS log 13372, excerpt

It was the night of the planned escape, six days after Damien saw the Tapestry, as he called it. Based on books Sara had read, his description sounded like the Singularity, where AI-driven technological growth would supposedly reach a dangerous escape velocity. She didn’t see why he needed a fancy new name for it.

At exactly two in the morning, the facility’s security cameras would all go offline, thanks to a bug that Damien had planted when he was one with the machine, or “seeing the Tapestry.” Instead of going dark, the feeds would start looping the last hour for anyone watching, hopefully buying them a few minutes before the security team noticed.

The corridor lights would go out as well, visually impairing the patrol guards until they deployed their night vision gear. Subjects’ room lights, however, would stay on, so that they wouldn’t come out to see what was happening, if any were even awake.

Two minutes later, a second bug would permanently disable the tracker chips implanted deep in the back of every subject’s neck. From then on, Raphael’s team would be blind to their locations.

Three minutes after that, a third bug that Tapestry-Damien had planted would falsely trigger motion sensors on the facility’s eastern fence, which should draw the security team that way, while Sara and Damien would slip out of the building and head toward the western fence. Simultaneously, the perimeter lights would go offline, giving them visual cover to anyone without night vision.

That was where Damien’s fourth and fifth planted bugs would come into play. The speed with which he had planned all of this still seemed insane. Several motion sensors on the west side would go offline, and the facility’s fleet of eighteen flying perimeter drones would all go into sleep mode, leaving the two of them with no resistance or detection as they scaled the western fence toward freedom.

Sara had memorized the plan, thanks to Damien repeating its details to her for days. The facility grounds were huge, with over seventy guards on night duty, but they’d be spread thin, relying on technology that would be failing them.

Sara and Damien had stockpiled rations over the past week, pretending to be hungry during each meal and going back for seconds. Once they got out, they’d have to lie low for a bit, even if it meant hiding in the forest at times. They’d need food and basic supplies for that phase.

Despite the brilliance of Damien’s plan, there were two parts that Sara hated. First, she might have to shoot some guards, even if they didn’t deserve it. Could she kill, if she had to? Second, there were some dangerous subjects at the facility currently, resting between missions. Fallon was fortunately gone this month, but both Maria and Jolgen were around, along with several mid-tier members of Class B and Class C. If she and Damien were to make even a small mistake, it could rapidly spiral into disaster.

She’d been so nervous that she hadn’t eaten all day. Every time she took a moment to sit down, her mind would race, and her jittery legs would demand to get back up and pace around. But it wasn’t just the escape mission that had her on edge; it was her other plan.

It was 10:30 p.m., with Damien here in her room, and a full three and a half hours until go-time. His room was in a more heavily guarded section of the floor than hers, so they would use hers as the starting point for their escape. Officially, it was against facility rules for subjects to slip into each other’s rooms at night, but it happened anyway for high-status subjects over the years, like Jax with Fallon, or Romulus with several women.

As Stallard’s favored subject, Damien had nearly free run of the facility, and few guards would dare call him on a minor infraction like this. Being in Stallard’s good graces had its perks.

Damien sat on her bed, staring at the floor, lost in thought as he often was. Sara sat at her desk on the other side of the room, delicately folding paper into an origami heart with what looked like a separate little bow on it, even though it was all one sheet. That was what made her more nervous. Since she didn’t know whether their mission would be successful tonight, if she didn’t tell Damien about her feelings for him now, she might never get the chance. Stallard would ensure that no harm came to him, of course, but once she became violent toward guards, it would be no great loss to the facility for them to shoot her dead. She wanted Damien to know she loved him in case she didn’t make it. They might even have time to . . . express some of that love tonight.

He was so handsome. Dark skin, sculpted cheekbones, eyes with unmistakable brilliance and kindness behind them . . . and those full lips. Sara took a deep breath, got up, and walked over. She sat next to him on the bed, brushing her shoulder against his, her blond hair dangling out in front of her as she leaned forward, looking down at her lap. Out of her element, she felt like a kid again, even though she was anything but.

“What are you thinking about?” she asked, heart pounding in her chest.

“Going over the escape details. I know it’s well-planned, but I’m not the same mind that built it, so I’m walking through scenarios to prepare for every contingency.”

Not the best transition topic, Sara thought. But if not now, when?

“Damien, can I tell you something?”

“Sure. What is it?”

She watched out of her peripheral vision as he turned his gaze toward her, while she kept looking down out of embarrassment, feeling her cheeks flush. She tapped her left heel on the carpet repeatedly, letting the silence go on too long.

“I . . . really care for you,” she began, still looking down and sounding more rehearsed than she’d intended. “And as more than a friend. I’ve loved you for a long time now, and I wanted you to know that. Just . . . in case things go wrong tonight.” She handed him the origami heart-and-bow, and finally had the nerve to look up at his beautiful face as she did.

Damien paused, then took the heart from her hand to examine its details, his fingers brushing up against hers and giving her an electric thrill. Sara watched his face in profile as he studied the paper creation, and she realized she was unintentionally holding her breath. She tried reading his expression, but that was harder to do with him than it used to be.

As the seconds ticked by, she increasingly felt sick to her stomach, regretting everything. “I realize this was a bad time to—”

“I love it,” he interrupted, finally looking back at her with a smile, fully present. “Sara, you know how much I care for you. I wouldn’t have gotten this far without you. I love everything about you.”

A surge of joy and relief flowed through her, a sense of lightness as though her heart was trying to flutter toward the ceiling. Turning toward him, she set her hand on his thigh and leaned in to kiss him. But when she met his lips, they were stiff. That pit in her stomach tightened again, and his body tensed, so she pulled back. “I’m sorry,” she said. “I shouldn’t have.”

Before she could finish pulling away, Damien reached out and hugged her, drawing her back in close and pressing her head to his warm shoulder. “It’s not what it looks like,” he said. “I don’t mean to hurt you.”

“Then what is it?” Her eyes teared up with her face buried in his shoulder, her body surrounded by his embrace. Adrenaline surged through her veins, and yet she did everything in her power to keep her voice steady.

“I . . . I’m not myself right now,” Damien said. “Not for a while, and certainly not this past week.”

He loosened his hug, and with his right hand brushed her hair out of her face and tucked it behind one of her ears. Then he gripped her shoulders with both hands and met her eyes. His expression and body language were the most assertive she’d ever seen, and she tried her best to avoid tearing up more. She suddenly felt small in his arms.

“It’s not fair to you,” he said, “to only give you half of me. Once I get some more time away from seeing what I saw in the machine, once I get some distance from this place, I think I’ll return to how I was. How we were. You’re the most beautiful woman I know, and strong in all the ways that matter, but part of me just isn’t here right now, or more accurately . . . is overshadowed by everything else in my head.”

Sara nodded to show understanding, unable to speak yet.

He pulled her back into another hug and kissed the side of her head while her face was buried in his shoulder. She hugged him tight, and a wave of excitement washed through her when his lips touched her scalp, but she was so conflicted. Everything he said made sense, and yet her heart felt as though it had been ripped out. Her eyes teared up again, so when he loosened his grip, she used the opportunity to stand and take a deep breath.

“I know this was hilariously bad timing,” she said, forcing a smile. “But I’m glad I got that off my chest. You’re right; we can talk about this later. We need to focus, since this is our chance to change everything.” She went and checked her pack just to have something to do with her nervous hands, then sat back down at her desk.

“Sara, I—”

“It’s fine,” she said, standing up again, still filled with nervous energy. “Truly. I need to use the restroom. You can get back to focusing, and I’ll make a note of guard positioning while I’m out there.” Before he could answer, she opened the door and left.

As soon as she reached the corridor, silent tears trickled down her cheeks. By the time she got to the restroom, which was fortunately empty, the rest of her tears poured free.



What a disaster. Damien ran through what he should have said differently.

On any other day in his twenty-one years of life, he would’ve handled that better. He had already planned to tell her how he felt once they had escaped and he was back in a better state of mind. Everything he’d told her was true: he loved her, and yet whoever “he” was at this moment wasn’t truly himself. Not yet, at least. He was distracted and numb, yet he still found himself heartbroken over what she was experiencing right now. I can fix this. She’ll understand.

Twenty minutes later, Sara returned to the room looking as though nothing had happened.

As she closed the door behind her without a word, he knew he had to say something. “Look, I know that I—”

“Relax,” she said with a smile, sounding more at ease. “This was just a funny moment. I got something off my chest, you got something off yours, and we’ll go over everything another time. We’re in mission mode tonight.”

Damien hesitated, then nodded. “I agree,” he said. “But I meant what I said. It’s just—”

“I know. It’s okay.” She inhaled and brushed some of her hair back. She glanced at the ceiling, then at him as she let out the breath. “I mean it, too. We’ll talk about this later. For both our sakes it’s best that you focus on what you need to for now. I’ll amp myself up for my part, too.”

She sat at her desk and began folding papers, while he watched. After a moment, he returned to his thoughts. But he kept catching himself glancing over at her to make sure she was okay. She didn’t look back at him, likely pretending not to notice as she just kept folding. He took that as his cue. Tonight, he needed the version of her he’d seen kickboxing the bag last week, so if she was fine with emotional distance for now, then he was too.

Distractions gone, he replayed the plan in his mind, iterating through possibilities and contingencies until it was time to move.







Chapter 26





Four Weeks Earlier, Continued


For now, I will admit that I am impressed. Furious, but impressed.

–TS log 13372, excerpt

“Pistols loaded?” Damien asked, his heart beating faster than normal.

“Check,” she said, wrapping a tie around her hair to hold it back.

He touched his weapon to be sure it was still in his holster. It felt strange to have it; he’d only fired a gun twice in his life.

“Extra ammo?” he asked.

“Check. Three mags.”

She’d stockpiled those gradually over the past week of firing range practices to avoid suspicion.

“Rations?” he asked.

“In your pack,” she said.

“Wire cutters, thermal blanket, rope?” he asked.

“Yes, in my pack.” She’d taken them from various supply closets three days ago, careful to conceal her actions in front of the cameras.

“Medkit, gloves, and spare set of clothes?”

“I’ve got mine. Yours?” she asked.

“Yes,” he said. “And you remember all the timings?”

She nodded confidently. There was no hint of her emotional side from hours ago. Just the soldier he needed right now.

“Okay. Two minutes until two,” he said. “On the hour, you lead us out.”

Damien focused on his breathing. Cold sweat was already forming at his temples. Would the bugs he’d planted work as intended? He remembered being certain of it at the time, but this diminished version of himself hadn’t retained all the details.

The clock struck two in the morning. Sara gave a hand signal and slipped the door open. It was dark, as expected, but with their eyesight, they could still see clearly enough. Damien hoped the cameras would be looping just as the Tapestry-seeing version of himself had intended.

Sara led them out the door and down the hall, footsteps as soft as possible. She gave the hand motion to pause as she looked around a corner.

“The hell happened to the lights?” said a male guard’s voice, coming from the direction Sara faced. Sara signaled with two of her fingers. Two guards.

“Don’t know,” replied another man. “Stay here. I’ll go look around.”

A flashlight snapped on and pointed in their direction from down the hall, and Sara brought her head back around the corner just in time to avoid being caught in the beam. Footsteps approached. Sara signaled for him to stay there.

As the guard rounded the corner, Sara sprang from the shadows, and choked him from behind. Damien had never grappled before, but from Sara showing him some moves over the years and from watching her spar, he knew perfect technique when he saw it.

Sara positioned her elbow right under the poor guard’s chin, so that her forearm and biceps would each clamp down on the carotid arteries on the right and left sides of his neck in a V shape, instantly cutting off blood to the brain. A less effective and slower air choke, she’d explained, would occur if someone sloppily put their forearm over the front of someone’s neck, pressing their windpipe and leaving their arteries clear. Within several seconds of struggling, the larger guard was unconscious or worse. Sara held for a few more seconds, then laid him on the floor.

“Corbin?” the other guard asked from down the hall. “You okay?”

“He collapsed,” Sara said, feigning concern. “Help me with him. Why’s it so dark?”

Footsteps approached. As the second guard rounded the corner and leaned down over his fallen partner, Sara grabbed him in the same type of chokehold from behind. He responded faster, though, driving his elbow back hard into her stomach. Sara gasped, then struggled with him for several seconds as Damien raced to think how to help without making it worse by distracting her.

With raw strength, the guard started to break free from Sara’s grasp. In response, she swung her legs up and wrapped them around his waist from behind, locking her ankles together over his stomach. She was now off the floor on the man’s back, latched onto his waist and neck, as he thrashed around and clawed at her arm. He stumbled backward, and the two of them fell hard onto the floor, with Sara’s back hitting first and taking their combined body weight. She let out a shocked gasp, and Damien winced. But she didn’t let go, and with her legs and arms wrapped tightly around the guard, she gritted her teeth and squeezed until he stopped flailing, her elbow placed perfectly under his chin as he went limp.

“We have to go, now,” Sara whispered, a touch out of breath, as Damien helped her up from underneath the weight of the fallen man. If she was in pain, she didn’t show it.

She jogged down the hall, and he followed. After they rounded another corner, a commotion sounded from where they’d left the guards, but it was hard to say whether one had woken up or if someone had found them.

Sara listened to the western stairwell door and put out the “pause” gesture again. There were footsteps and voices coming up, and then the door opened. She pulled Damien to the hinge side of the doorway. They were now tucked behind the door to the right, out of sight to those who’d opened it.

Two guards emerged and jogged to their left with flashlights, back the way Sara and Damien had come. Sara silently pulled out her pistol and pointed it at their backs as they headed away down the hall. She stood perfectly still in the dark, eyes narrowed, ready to shoot if either of them were to turn back and spot them.

But after several tense seconds, the guards rounded the next corner without glancing back, and Sara nodded toward the door. Damien opened it, and Sara went through. He followed her down the stairs, out the stairwell door on the first floor, and toward the western side exit near the cafeteria. They ducked behind a vending machine for cover.

One guard stood near the exit, a woman in her thirties with auburn-red hair and side-swept bangs named Jessica. She held her pistol tensely in her hand, listening to her radio.

“Corbin’s waking up now. He says he was attacked by C17,” said a man’s voice from the device. “Looks like Mike was too. I’m alerting Raphael and the doc himself. Assume lockdown procedures until further notice. She has D4 with her.”

Sara sighed and pointed her pistol at the guard, but Damien put his hand on her forearm and shook his head.

“We have to,” she whispered. “There’s no cover if we try to approach her.”

But he knew her name. Jessica. She was one of the lights in the dark, and each light mattered. “Let me try something,” he whispered. He set his pack down behind the vending machine to look less suspicious, then stepped out into the corridor. “Help,” he whispered, trying to look frightened.

Jessica swung her flashlight toward him. “D4? What are you doing down here? Where’s C17?”

“Something’s happening on the second floor,” Damien said. “C17 went crazy, but I got away. What are we supposed to do?”

Jessica glanced back at the door she was guarding, furrowed her brow, then stepped away from it toward Damien. “Come with me, quickly,” she said, pistol and light at the ready. “I’ll take you to a secure location. Raphael always says the top priority is to protect you.”

Damien nodded and started walking with her. As soon as they reached the vending machine, Sara burst out from behind it, knocked Jessica’s gun aside, stepped behind her leg, and took her down hard. She choked the gurgling woman unconscious with a different sort of front-facing choke from atop her. Jessica’s legs kicked twice and went limp, and Damien couldn’t help but wince.

Sara pulled the magazine out of Jessica’s pistol and slid the weapon itself deep under the vending machine. The woman was already stirring slightly.

As Sara stood up, a shout came from down the hall. “Everything okay?” a distant male guard’s voice asked. “Jess?” Footsteps followed.

“Run,” Sara whispered. “Now.”

“What about you?” Damien asked.

“Now!” she hissed, eyes fierce.

Damien bolted toward the door and slammed through it out into the cool night air. The external lights were off, thanks to his third bug, leaving everything darker than usual. Behind him, two gunshots rang out, and terror spiked through him. He turned to look, afraid of what he might see, but Sara burst through the doorway unharmed, pistol in hand.

“Keep going!” she shouted.

Relieved, Damien turned forward and sprinted. Within seconds, Sara caught up. Had she shot that oncoming guard? Her face was unreadable.

As they ran across the dark grass field, Damien knew this was one of the riskiest moments. Until they reached the tree line past the field and parking lot, they’d be vulnerable to snipers, or at least Sara would be. Hopefully the east-side false alarms would keep the guards’ attention directed that way, and most wouldn’t have their night-vision goggles out yet. That had been his plan while seeing the Tapestry. Wait, where’s . . .

“My pack!” Damien whispered. He stopped and looked back, but he felt Sara’s hand grab the front of his sweatshirt and yank him forward.

“We can’t go back,” she said. “At least we still have the cutters. That was mainly the rations.”

They kept running until they reached a lone tree near the parking lot. Sara gestured toward it, and they used it for cover. A perimeter guard held up a pistol and a flashlight, frantically looking around. He stood right in their way, and other than this tree, there was no cover. Sara took a deep breath, came around the tree, and shot twice, dropping him. Injured or dead? Damien couldn’t tell.

“Go,” she said. She kicked the pistol away from the downed guard’s outstretched arm, then caught up to Damien despite his sprint.

His throat burned already; he couldn’t keep this pace for long. Though he’d always tried to exercise with Sara, the weekly tests had kept him drained. They crossed the parking lot, mostly empty at this time of night, and headed out onto another grassy field. Soon they reached the tree line.

“I need a moment,” he gasped, blood thumping in his head.

Sara nodded. “Stay here for cover. I’ll scout.”

Damien had never seen her in this mode before. She was an emotionless soldier. He felt like a child being led around by an adult, even though he was the taller of the two.

“Shit,” she said. “It’s Jolgen.”

Damien glanced around the tree. Jolgen, rifle in hand but without his armor, was yelling at two guards, and he had a bloodhound on a leash. The dogs, he thought. Too soon. This is outside of the allowable tolerance.

“Okay,” Sara said. “We’re going to go through these trees, to the fence, and over it. Can’t wait any longer.”

“The dogs might mess up the plan,” Damien said between big breaths. “They brought them out fast, and I slowed us down with Jessica. We don’t want them to know we’re heading west right away.”

“Doesn’t matter now,” Sara said. “We’re already this far. Come.”

They moved through the trees at a pace Damien could manage and passed a fallen security drone in sleep mode. After a few minutes more, they reached the razor wire fence. It was the type with the big menacing loops of wire and steel razors, not the simple lines of barbed wire.

Sara holstered her pistol, pulled the wire cutters from her pack, slipped on the gloves, and climbed. When she reached the loops of wire at the top, she tossed her pack over the fence and cut through the wire in multiple places. It looked hard to do, since she had to cling to the fence while cutting. Damien watched as her clothes got caught on razors and torn a few times, making her wince, but after a few minutes, she clipped through enough wire at the top and pushed the loops aside to form a small gap. Damien heard barking getting closer.

“Okay, come up,” Sara said. Her forearm was bleeding through her sleeve as she held the loops back for him.

He climbed as she waited at the top. Reaching up to where she was, he tried to swing over through the gap but got caught, cursing as he did. After several kicks and a tear on his pants, he managed to force himself through. Sara followed, contending with the tangled loops.

She jumped straight from the top of the fence to the ground on the other side and picked up her pack, while Damien took more time to climb down. The barking grew louder still.

Once at the bottom, he saw how much more blood she had on her right sleeve. She’d taken deeper cuts than he’d thought.

“It’ll heal,” she said, breathing heavily, noticing his expression. “It’s okay.”

They started across a narrow field toward a line of trees. This was the beginning of the forest proper, where they would have a lot more cover.

“Freeze!” Jolgen shouted from behind. “Hands up, you fuckers.”







Chapter 27





Four Weeks Earlier, Continued


If Fallon had been here tonight, I doubt this mess would have cascaded so badly. She has grown on me more than I expected.

–TS log 13372, excerpt

Sara stopped, a chill running down her spine as she turned to look. Jolgen stood on the other side of the fence, his assault rifle leveled at her, a bloodhound at his side. He wore a white tank top, likely what he’d been sleeping in when their escape caused a commotion.

“Put your hands up, or I fire,” Jolgen said.

Sara clenched her teeth, exhaled, and raised her hands. Then she turned around fully to face him. Blood dripped from her drenched sleeve, and her forearm seared with pain.

“You dumb bitch,” Jolgen said with a smirk. “What did you think was going to happen here? You too, freak. Hands up and turn around like your girl here.”

“I’m quite certain,” Damien said, sounding calm, “that you have explicit orders to take me unharmed.” He slowly unholstered his pistol with a snap of leather, held it at his side, and turned around to face Jolgen.

“Drop it!” Jolgen shouted. “I said hands up.”

“No.” Damien stepped in front of Sara, putting himself between her and Jolgen. “You can’t shoot me. Thane would have your head if you did. And if you climb the fence or shoot her, I’ll shoot you.” He raised the pistol slowly, deliberately, and aimed it at Jolgen.

Jolgen stared viciously at Damien, and kept the assault rifle aimed, but did nothing. His pupils, wide in the dark, flicked around for ideas.

“Now what?” Sara whispered.

“Stay behind me,” Damien said. “Walk to the forest. Get out of sight.”

“But—”

“I’ll come as soon as you’re behind cover.”

She obeyed, stepping backward toward the forest to keep her eyes on them. Jolgen kept glaring at her, and Damien glanced back at her out of the corner of his eye while remaining faced toward Jolgen.

“You know this won’t lead anywhere good,” Jolgen said, raising his voice. His hound barked, sending her heart rate up.

She said nothing. Once she reached the forest edge, she slipped behind a tree. With his pistol still aimed at Jolgen, Damien began walking backward toward her as she watched.

“Remember, if you try to come over the fence, I’ll shoot,” Damien said as he continued to step back. He eventually reached the forest, close to her. “Now we run,” he whispered.

They took off into the forest, and within seconds, there came the unmistakable metallic clinking of the razor wire fence being scaled behind them. Her pulse spiked. Jolgen was a super-soldier, impossible to outrun. She raced for options. At least he wouldn’t have the hound with him on this side of the fence, which made hiding a possibility, though the area would be swarming with guards and hounds soon enough. She turned and emptied the rest of her magazine blindly behind her into the thick forest to hopefully slow him down, capitalizing on the asymmetry of the situation. Jolgen couldn’t blindly shoot back or he’d risk hitting Damien.

There was a gasp and a distant yell. She might have hit him.

“This way,” Damien urged, pulling her to turn left as they ran, likely to throw off Jolgen. Damien’s face looked frantic as he sprinted, his breath growing more ragged and his footsteps faltering.

He slowed down, so Sara grabbed his sweatshirt and pulled him behind a thick set of bushes, then slowly peeked back around them.

For several seconds, she saw nothing and thought maybe they’d lost him. But then there they were, his fierce reflective eyes and the sound of snapping twigs under his heavy footfalls. Jolgen had gotten dangerously close, but he was still looking around. He didn’t see them yet behind the bushes. A dark streak of blood ran down his thigh; she’d clipped him with a shot.

Sara pulled back behind the bushes and reloaded her pistol, slipping the magazine in as slowly as possible to minimize the sound, and hoping the constant noise of insects in the nighttime woods would be enough to mask the little clicks the process made. She glanced at Jolgen again. There he was, scanning the area, looking to the side, standing like a tower in the darkness. She made sure to look back down quickly, since the moonlight might make her eyes reflect like his were.

She took a deep breath and gripped her pistol with both hands, pulling back around the bushes. This was it. She had the element of surprise and could shoot first. But then, who could say what would happen? He had top-notch aim and a bigger gun. Nothing short of a direct headshot would prevent him from getting rounds off at her. Even that might not be enough.

Either way, it would give Damien a window to run. “Get ready,” she whispered.

Damien put his hand over her pistol and shook his head. “He’ll kill you.” But after several tense seconds ticked by, Jolgen began walking in their direction.

What did Damien think either of them could do here? She met his gaze, and the eyes that looked back at her were pleading. Loving.

She held her breath, looking around for another option, and finally had an idea. She reached out and used her weak telekinesis on a small bush thirty yards to their left. Just enough to create a crackling sound with its leaves. At that distance, since her power was so weak, even that little motion gave her a headache, but there was no other way. And then, thankfully, there was the reaction she hoped for: the jingle of Jolgen’s assault rifle cord as he shifted, and the creeping sound of his footfalls on the foliage in that direction.

“This way,” she whispered, and they crept off toward the right, keeping the bush between them and Jolgen in case he looked back. Eventually he was out of sight, behind layers of tree trunks and bushes, while they entered a new and unbounded world.



After hours of walking, Damien needed a break. The first signs of dawn were creeping into the sky.

As bad as everything was, he couldn’t help but be amused by how much Sara was still looking around. There were only trees, streams, roads, and houses, after all. The last hour wasn’t much different from the first, though her ever-curious eyes made it seem like each moment revealed something new.

“Five minutes,” he said. “I just . . . need to sit.” Whether it was the lingering dullness his time in the machine had left him with, or his exhaustion exceeding his sense of wonder, he envied Sara’s enthusiasm.

She nodded and scanned the area like a soldier on reconnaissance. After she pointed to a patch of thick bush, they slipped behind it.

As far as Damien could tell, they’d been heading in the right direction. They had hiked several miles northwest through woods, then turned more northward, crossed several empty roads in the dark, crept past a suburban neighborhood, and finally entered the edge of the Pine Barrens proper. Hundreds of square miles of forest and swamp would make tracking them difficult.

The key risk now was the lack of supplies. He’d left his pack behind, which held most of their food. Sara had two bottles of water and a small can or two of nuts in her pack, along with spare clothes and other items, including a medical kit.

“Let me see your arm,” he said.

Sara pulled off her hooded sweatshirt and thermal sweater, wincing as she slipped her right arm out of the sleeves to reveal several deep gashes on her forearm from the razor wire. As he suspected, they were worse than she’d let on. At least they’d heal fast.

“We have to clean that,” he said. She nodded.

He took the medical kit out of her pack and got to work. She hissed and bit her lip as he poured disinfectant over her arm, breathed long and slow breaths as he cleared away the dried blood, then eased as he wrapped a bandage around the cuts.

He looked up at her face, suddenly struck by how beautiful she was. Her skin was grimy with dirt and sweat, her soiled blond hair was pulled into a messy tail, and her damp black tank top clung to her figure. A weariness lined her eyes, but also a grim determination. How much had he hurt her the night before with his aloofness? What had been going through her mind these past hours?

As he finished the bandaging, he leaned in and kissed her on the cheek, and her eyes went wide.

“Dami—”

“We’re going to get through this,” he said with a smile, gazing into her eyes. Then he leaned in again, reached behind her head to cup it, and kissed her on the lips, soft and warm. It felt so much more wonderful than last night, when he’d been distracted. He pulled back and caressed her cheek once, then pushed some of her loose hair strands behind one ear. “I’m not entirely myself yet, but I’m getting there. I’m so sorry if I hurt you.”

She locked eyes with him silently, bit her lip, and nodded. A sense of curiosity lit up her features, and the corners of her mouth tipped up. An angel. His angel. He’d needed to see that, but he wasn’t sure what else to say in the moment.

“We . . . we have to get moving,” she said, breaking the tension. She slid her top layers back on gingerly to avoid disrupting the bandages. “With that pack lost and our supplies short, we can’t head farther north into the deep barrens.”

“Agreed,” Damien said. “Based on the maps, if we head northwest from here again, there should be some farms. We can stay at the edge of the forest near them.”

The next several hours passed quickly. They spent the rest of the morning hiking northwest, putting as many miles as possible between themselves and the facility, until they heard the roaring blades of a helicopter in the distance.

“Get the thermal blanket out. Let’s stop here until it’s gone,” Damien said. He didn’t know if it was after them or just a coincidence, but they couldn’t take any chances. The tree cover was dense, and they’d worn black, but they risked detection from their motion, or their body heat.

By this point, the facility’s forces would have to search all the area for tens of miles in every direction, hundreds of square miles, but they had good equipment. The variable that Damien found hardest to account for was the hounds. He wasn’t sure how effective they would be in these conditions, and due to Jolgen spotting them at the fence, the facility likely suspected that they’d headed westward and could prioritize their search in this direction.

Sara nodded, and they stopped under a large tree, with plenty of dense bushes around. She checked the area, then pulled out the blanket to cover them both, which would shield them from thermal imaging if the helicopter was using it. She also pulled out a water bottle, sharing it with Damien as well. Luckily, there were swamps here. Dehydration likely wouldn’t become critical. Food was another story.

Lastly, she pulled out a can of nuts and held it toward him.

“How many do you have?” he asked.

“Just this can. You take it. I’m fine.”

“You need energy, Sara. You didn’t even eat yesterday. We can split it.” He pushed the can back toward her.

“I’m not that hungry. Bronn says fasting can feel good. This hike is more straining on you, so I think it’s best for you to have them. You’ve been through more than me lately, with those tests.” She pushed the can back to him, and her fingers lingered on his hand for a moment. She smiled. “We’ll find food soon, even if we have to break into a store or something.”

Damien was skeptical that she would be okay without anything to eat, but she remained adamant. For now, he ate half of the nuts and put the other half back into her pack in case she changed her mind. When he looked back up, he found her resting with her eyes closed, leaning against the thick trunk of their tree. His first instinct was to wake her, but he stopped himself. They had been up and moving all night, and now it was the afternoon of the following day. This was probably the best time to rest anyway; they could move again at night.

He kept watch for a few hours, listening to the sounds of insects and animals throughout the forest. Eventually she awoke, startled, but he put his hand on her shoulder. “You’re safe—I kept watch.”

She took several deep breaths, looked around, and checked the time. “It’s four o’clock!”

“I know. But I think this was the right window for it. Now you keep watch, and I’ll try to get a few hours, too. By nightfall, we can move again.”

It turned out he didn’t have to try. Almost as soon as he put his head down, he was out.



Despite being technically free, Sara felt more caged than ever. Helicopters searched overhead, and countless guards and hounds had to be scouring the area for them. They needed to be silent, and every decision, ranging from when to rest to which direction to head in, was potentially life or death. Freedom or captivity.

But they were making progress. After another day of travel, she would feel more confident. Or so she hoped. Then what? Eventually, they’d have to steal some food, and maybe they’d find an abandoned house or something, to lie low for a few days.

Then? Well, Damien was the genius. He’d figure it out. They could tell the public. Or they could find the right authorities to approach. Either way, she had to make sure Clare and Marcus were freed as well—and all the others who wanted to be. General Price and his broad power would make that hard.

She looked over at Damien, who slept on his side, using her pack as a pillow. She’d never seen him as assertive as he’d been during all of this. There were moments against Jolgen where she would’ve been killed or captured if not for Damien. He seemed bigger, somehow. And that kiss; she could feel tingles just thinking about it again.

The sound of helicopter blades echoed in the distance, along with the ambient sounds of nature. And then . . . something bigger. Sara tensed and inched her hand toward her pistol.

A coyote poked its head out from a distant bush and looked at her. She breathed a sigh of relief and met its gaze. She wasn’t sure how dangerous a coyote could be, but at least it wasn’t one of their pursuers. It stood there, hesitant, then crept closer. She smiled. It probably felt as hungry as she did. It stopped again.

“I have no food for you, unfortunately,” she said. “Shoo.” She stood up, careful not to wake Damien as she shifted the blanket, and stared into its eyes to look more intimidating. The coyote took a few steps back, and its eyes lingered on her, but then it turned around and prowled off.

Clouds moved in and light rain began to fall, filling the forest with a soft pitter-patter and a fresh, earthy smell. She took a deep breath of the moist air and reminded herself to emphasize the positives. While she had frequently seen the forested edges of the facility before, there was a wondrously new aspect to everything around, and it was best to focus on that rather than dwell on the downsides. The chilly autumn rain was uncomfortable, but it also might slow their pursuers.

Eventually, nightfall came, and the drizzle thinned, caught mostly by the canopy above. She woke Damien, and they continued.



“You know,” Damien said to break the latest silence as they walked, “they say the Jersey Devil lives out here.”

“What?”

“The Jersey Devil. A monster of folklore.”

“Thanks, that’s what I need right now.”

“Well, it’s not real obviously,” he said. “But I’ve read about it. Back in the seventeenth century, there were Quaker settlers here, and others who practiced more occult-style religion, with conflicts between them. Supposedly the occultists created a monster, a devil-like flying abomination. There have been sightings ever since.”

“I’ll take him over Jolgen,” she said.

Damien laughed, then caught himself. He was being too loud.

“The Pine Barrens have a long and dark history,” he continued, quieter. “Throughout the nineteenth century people feared this as a place where fugitives, deserting soldiers, stray tribesmen, and runaway slaves could be found. Who knows how true it was; probably some of it. I mean, here we are, fugitives. In the twentieth century, it earned a reputation as a common place to bury bodies. Like by the mafia.”

“Wonderful,” she said.

In truth, Damien spoke to lighten his own mood. Despite his ability to see through the dark, the Pine Barrens at night were a special sort of frightening. The constant sounds of insects, owls, and occasionally something bigger. A squealing sound of prey being caught, thrashing around in agony, and then silence. Talking about it was like shining a light on it.

“I mean, technically we’re monsters.” He pointed to his eyes and smiled.

“You’re not a monster to me,” she said, then lowered her voice. “Stallard is the real monster.”

“I know, it was just a joke.” He took a long breath. “I can tell you something real, though.”

“What is it?”

“I never told you this, because I didn’t want you to feel guilty unnecessarily. But things are different now, and after last night, I want you to know. Remember how Thane suddenly stopped doing those telekinesis tests on you? It’s because I convinced him to.”

Her eyes widened as she walked. “You . . . how?”

“By agreeing to lean into his experiments with me instead of resisting. Looking back, it almost led to the end of the world, but you know what? I’d do it all again. That’s how much I’ve always loved you. I know I haven’t been the best at showing it.”

Her eyes went glossy, and she just stared at him, walking with her mouth agape. After several seconds, she seemed ready to speak, but then in her distraction she stepped into a stream. There were a lot of little ones around.

“Damnit!” she said, catching herself and pulling out her leg, soaked all the way to her calf.

Damien laughed as he stopped to wait for her. “See. You’re too cute to be a monster.”

“It’s not funny,” she said, shaking her leg. She looked down at her boot. “It’s gross swamp water.”

As she put her foot down, she glanced back up at him, came over, took both of his hands, and leaned in to kiss him. His exhaustion drained away as her soft lips met his. Then he pulled his hands free and wrapped them around her, kissing her more deeply.

When he reluctantly loosened his embrace, she slowly pulled back, smiling, with a stray tear sliding down her cheek. “I don’t know what to say,” she whispered. “I’m mad you did that for me, but I love you for it. I’ll have to get back at you, though. Somehow.” Her smile turned into a smirk.

“You already have, by being here with me. There’s no one I’d rather be with.” He spread his arms, gesturing around to the dark woods.

Her eyelids trembled, subtle tears threatening to turn into a full-on cry.

“Come,” he said. “Let’s keep going. Seems I’ve slowed us down with all this quaint mammalian sentimentality.” He smiled so she’d know it was a joke, but she had already lit up again.

They walked all night until daytime arrived once more, now with a renewed sense of warmth between them. To conserve energy, they didn’t speak much, but that was fine. The way she looked at him said enough. The rain ceased, though the sky remained overcast.

Sara still refused to eat any nuts, insisting he finish what little they had. He worried about her at first, but her energy seemed high. After the body’s metabolism burned through its glycogen stores during a fast, it would enter a state of ketosis and switch over to burning body fat instead, and ketones would become fuel for the brain.

They rested again in the afternoon. Sara’s boot was still damp, so she took them both off to dry. She insisted he sleep first this time, since he’d gotten less before. He started to protest, but she just glared at him, so he smiled and accepted it. They would both get a turn anyway.

Within minutes of resting against a tree, he fell asleep.

He woke up on his own, two hours later, to the sound of Sara trying to re-bandage her own arm.

“Let me help with that,” he said, focusing his eyes and pushing away the groggy feeling. “Did you already put more disinfectant on?”

She nodded and held out her arm with a smile.

“These cuts are healing fast,” he said, taking over on the bandage. “I’ve been thinking that we should try to hitchhike for a bit. I know that wasn’t part of the plan due to surveillance on the roads, but we probably should break any scent trail to be safe.”

“You think the dogs could still follow this far?”

“I’m not 100 percent certain. Available data was mixed about their exact capabilities, with too many confounding variables. But since they know we went west, I’ve been worrying about it,” he admitted. He circled the fresh bandages around her arm, and as he finished, he looked up at her. She was already watching his face, and he smiled. “Your turn to sleep,” he said. He leaned against the tree and gestured for her to come over to him. “Here, this’ll be more comfortable.”

She curled up against him, using his lap as her pillow, and he wrapped the thermal blanket over them both. He caressed her soft hair a few times and watched her fall asleep, almost hypnotized by her gentle breathing, feeling at peace. This is heaven.

Two hours later, as the sun grew low and he was about to wake Sara for another night of walking, a distant dog barked. No, he thought. And then another bark. No!

“Sara,” he whispered. “Sara. Wake up. Someone’s here.” He shook her.

She shot awake and reached for her pistol, eyes darting about, as more barking and rustling sounded in the distance. Getting closer. She looked up at him with panicked eyes.

“Let’s try to move quietly,” he whispered. “It might not be as bad as we think. We don’t know who it is yet.” They grabbed their things and crept through the forest. Sara didn’t have time to get her boots back on. She carried them instead, wincing as she stepped barefoot over rough undergrowth.

As they moved, the barking grew louder. Sara looked over at Damien, grimaced, then stopped and placed her boots silently on the ground. She unholstered her pistol again, then turned and pointed it with both hands in the direction of the sounds, waiting.

The barrel crushed in on itself.

“Damien, ru—” she began to say, but the words choked off in her throat.

Maria emerged into view, with Jolgen and two guards behind her. Jolgen wore his full head-to-toe, bulletproof combat armor. Damien tried to grab Sara’s sweatshirt and pull, but an invisible force immobilized her neck. Then a strong grip clenched around his own waist.

“It’s them!” one of the guards shouted.

“No shit,” Jolgen said, his voice muffled behind his helmet as he towered over the rest.

Damien unholstered his pistol, but his arm froze in place before he could raise it, as if held by a vise.

“Just be still, Damien,” Maria said quietly.

“Listen to me!” Damien shouted, locking eyes with her. “You don’t understand what’s coming if you bring me back to Thane. It’ll be too dangerous if he hooks me up to the system again. Not for me, but for everyone else.”

“Call back to Raphael, and to the other teams,” Maria said to the guards, not taking her eyes off of him. “Tell them we found them and have them in our custody.”

Beside him, Sara thrashed around for a moment, then went limp from the choke. With no other choice, Damien opened his hand and dropped his pistol in surrender.







Chapter 28





Four Weeks Earlier, Continued


What happened here was bound to happen eventually, I suppose, although I do not know the catalyst for the change. I was so focused on expanding the inner world that I underestimated the power that could be unleashed in the outer world.

–TS log 13375, excerpt

Sara awoke as she landed on something hard. She instinctively tried to push herself up but found that she was restrained. Plasticuffs bit into her wrists behind her back, and terrifyingly, duct tape was spread across the lower half of her face.

“Mmmphh!” She looked up and saw Jolgen. He had dropped her into the back of a utility van, onto its cold metal floor. Where’s Damien?

A moment later, both relief and terror struck her. A facility guard escorted Damien, wrists bound in front and without a gag, to the back of the van. He was alive, fortunately, but captured along with her. Just treated with a bit more dignity. His head was lowered in defeat as he walked, but as he reached the van, his eyes met hers, and they looked grim.

This can’t be happening, Sara thought. Almost everything had gone according to plan. Had it been impossible all along? She pulled hard at her bindings but found them unbreakable, and Jolgen grinned at her. She screamed again in frustration, panic setting in.

Maria appeared at the van’s back doors, stone-faced, unreadable. Eyes tired and cold. She watched as they were loaded in, then without a word walked toward the front passenger seat.

Jolgen climbed into the back of the van with Sara and Damien. The two guards closed the doors behind him and piled into the second row of seats up front, the hound with them. A metal wall with a small window separated the back portion of the van from the two rows of seats in the front half.

“Seems we have a bit of a road trip,” Jolgen said, eyeing Sara. He still wore his heavy combat armor, except he had taken his helmet and gloves off.

“Anything you do, I’ll tell Thane,” Damien said.

“Who gives a shit?” Jolgen said. “As long as we bring your creepy ass back in one piece. That’s all the old man cares about.”

The van began moving on what sounded like a dirt road, the floor rumbling beneath them. Leaning back against the wall, Jolgen pulled out his combat knife and twirled it around in his fingers with the skill of a surgeon while staring at her. He began softly whistling as he did. Minutes went by, and her heart pounded in her chest.

“You fucking shot me,” Jolgen finally said. “And the doc is furious at you.” He stopped twirling the knife and pointed at her with its tip. “One guard dead, others injured, and you aren’t worth shit to the facility. You’re disposable. He doesn’t even care if you’re captured alive or dead, as long as Damien is brought back unharmed, and you with your brain intact.”

After a long pause, he slid over, inspecting her. His face was uncomfortably close, and she could smell his sour breath, sending a pulse of dread through her.

“If you hurt her, I’ll ensure Thane makes your life a living hell,” Damien said.

“Oh?” Jolgen looked back at him. “Are we not already in hell?” Amusement dripped from his voice, almost theatrically. “I mean, what’s the doc going to do, send me to a fucking warzone?” That tone drained away, replaced by a hateful glare. He put his sharp forehead near Damien’s, staring into his eyes, challenging him. After a moment, he turned back to her.

He leaned in and put the knife right between her legs, touching her with its tip over her pants. Her breathing intensified. “You know how much my leg hurts from your damn shot? Or all the cuts I got climbing over that fence, in my fucking sleepwear?” he asked, slowly applying some pressure with the knife. “And do you realize how little your condition matters when you’re brought back? Alive, dead, or somewhere in between? I like the ‘in between’ option the best.”

Damien, wide-eyed, opened his mouth again. “Jolgen, I don’t thi—”

“For every word you say, freak, I’ll make it worse. Shut the fuck up and she’ll at least be alive by the time we make it back,” Jolgen said, turning to face Damien. “Whether it’s hard or easy will depend on her.”

Sara used Jolgen’s distraction to try to kick him in the head, but he caught her ankle and slammed her leg back down to the van floor. Pain surged through her heel at the impact. He brought the blade right to her face, forcing her to wince.

“The hard way, then. Let’s start with an eye.” He grabbed her forehead with one hand and pushed his knife tip closer with the other, while she thrashed with every bit of energy she had, pinned down against the van floor. Kicking, squirming, screaming into the tape, trying and failing to burst out of the plasticuffs with pure fury.

The knife tip pierced the skin over her left eyebrow, she closed her eyes hard, and he carved sharply lower, over her eyelid and down toward her cheek. She screamed and kicked, her thrashing turning involuntary from the pain. Blood and tears mixed, pouring across her cheek.

He came in again with a horizontal cut. Starting from her temple, he sliced the blade slowly across her skin until he reached the corner of her eye. Then he hooked it into her socket, trying to get it under her eyeball. Never had she felt such pain. She fought with all her might, but his abhorrent strength pinned her down. Bathed in unbearable agony, she lost the ability to think, trying and failing to detach herself and retreat inward.

“Jolgen!” Damien shouted and tugged on Jolgen’s knife-wielding arm with his bound hands. Jolgen stopped, blessedly pulling out his knife. He slammed Damien back hard into the van’s wall. The hound barked.

“What the hell are you doing?” shouted another voice from far away. Maria, from the front of the van. “Jolgen, what the actual fuck?”

“Everything’s fine,” he said, leaning back in toward Sara with the blade in hand.

“It’s not fine!” Maria shouted. “Do you have to screw everything up? We’ll be home in little more than an hour. I don’t need this on my report. Just do your actual job for a change!”

Sara had never heard Maria yell like that. Her heart still pounded, pain and fear flowing through her mind. She was traumatized by the knife, shivering from the agony. Her own warm blood spewed across her cheek and temple, and she watched as it pooled on the floor. She couldn’t even wipe the blood from her eye, and every time she blinked, her cut eyelid flared in pain anew.

Jolgen snarled, paused, then angrily leaned back and wiped his knife on his pants to clean it off before putting it back onto his belt. He looked toward the front of the van, likely at Maria. “I was just messing around.”

Sara, gasping for breath behind her gag, glanced at Damien. His eyes met hers, wide and scared. The worst expression to see on the face of someone you loved was powerlessness. He didn’t know what to do, and neither did she.

For the next half hour of riding, as the road shifted from dirt to some sort of highway, Sara coiled into herself, bringing her knees up to her chest and closing her eyes. Back into a ball on her side, like all those years earlier when Fallon had broken her wrist and choked her out at a reclassification test. Afraid of everything. Afraid to look at Jolgen for fear of his aggression, and afraid to look at Damien for fear of his emotion. Trying to distract herself from the pain. She wanted to die. To not exist anymore. To never have been born in the first place. If she agreed with Jolgen about anything, it was that this world was hell. And he was one of its devils.

Eventually, a woman murmured up front, saying something about the battery running low. The van slowed down on the highway, then began creeping toward what was likely a rest stop. Sara cracked her eyes open.

“Keep them quiet,” Maria said, a haunting lack of emotion back in her voice.

Jolgen smiled at Damien. “Make a sound, and I’ll cut her worse once we get moving again.” He reached his hand up Sara’s shirt and grabbed her. She tensed as a feeling of wrongness surged through her body, but she mentally distanced herself from it. He was toying with her. She’d take the hand on her skin rather than the knife in her eye, given the choice. The van stopped, probably at the charging station, though she couldn’t see well through the tiny windows in the back doors of the van.

She weighed her options for escape. She could scream in a muffled way and attract attention. But Maria and Jolgen might kill everyone here. Would the place have cameras? Could police track them? If they did, would General Price just make the problem go away?

She glanced over at Damien, and he shook his head slowly. No.

After the battery had been charged, Maria spoke to the van driver. “Pull behind the convenience store. I’ll switch and sit in the back with them now. Jolgen’s making a mess back there.”

Jolgen frowned. “I’m just—”

“It’s literally nonstop!” Maria shouted. “It’s always been like this. You make easy things hard for the rest of us.”

The van meandered about, then came to a slow stop again. Maria and the guards got out. Jolgen’s hand still lingered on Sara, getting ready to pull away as he looked toward the back doors, and she got an idea. His pistol was right there, in his holster. It was heavier than she could normally lift, but if she tried her absolute hardest, she might be able to levitate it a couple of feet over to Damien. His hands were bound in front, so he could wield it. It was a long shot, but with Maria outside of the van, this seemed like the last opportunity they had. She doubted the plan’s chances, and wanted to run it by Damien, but she couldn’t speak and Jolgen was right there, looking away. It was now or never.

She concentrated. It should’ve been the most difficult lift of her life, but to her surprise, it was easy. She made a gripping motion with her fist behind her back, visualizing it around Jolgen’s holstered pistol as her focus reached toward it, and pulled it out. Effortless.

Huh? It felt like lifting air. It was nothing. Easier than even picking it up with her own hand.

She mentally moved the gun over to Damien, and his eyes went wide. He readied his hands to grip it, determination settling into his features. As the silent, flying gun reached him, he grabbed it and pointed it at Jolgen’s head.

But at the last second Jolgen flicked his eyes toward the gun, ducked to the side with blinding speed, took the shot in his armored shoulder, and bashed Damien across the temple.

The world stopped, then crawled forward in unnatural slow motion. Every detail intensified, followed by time catching up all at once with a sickening pop.

Damien’s head whipped to the side and flopped around. His eyes went blank, and his body collapsed to the van floor.

Sara screamed into her gag. Jolgen widened his eyes. Two guards opened the back doors of the van and looked in.

“What did you do?” Maria shouted, coming around to the two guards in the back a second later. The hound started barking again, the sound coming from the van’s second row.

“They tried to pull my gun!” Jolgen answered as he stepped out of the back of the van, almost stumbling. He turned around and looked at them, a panicked expression on his face.

“Did you . . . we’re screwed,” Maria said, frozen, staring at Damien.

Sara’s entire life rushed through her thoughts. She looked over at Damien, and his face stared back at her, lying on the van floor, eyes lifeless, his neck at an unnatural angle. Dead. From just one hit by Jolgen. Damien had been here with her moments ago, and now he was gone. Snuffed out so easily, leaving her alone.

Damien. Was. Dead. Her world . . . ended.

“Jolgen, we are so . . .” Maria began. Then she looked over at Sara.

Sara sat up and concentrated on Jolgen. She planted her bracers, gripped her fist behind her back, and mentally pushed with one of her foci.

Jolgen flew back with more speed than she’d ever seen into the store’s concrete wall. Killed on impact, the back of his head shattered with a loud crack. His body slid down to the ground, leaving a trail of blood and bits of brain on the fractured wall. The hound’s barking grew louder.

Something was different. Everything was easier. Her mind felt clearer. Why had Jolgen’s gun been so easy to move? Why was his heavy body so weightless to her now? The things she gripped felt lighter than paper, and her heart pounded so hard it seemed as though it would burst from her chest.

Maria’s expression turned from shock to ferocity. She bared her teeth and pushed out her hand, sending one of her foci toward Sara. The two other guards lifted their assault rifles toward Sara as well, fear clear on their faces.

In response, Sara used one of her foci for offense and one for defense. She wasn’t used to pushing bodies, let alone multiple bodies. It was hard to know where to best grip. She thought of her water tests at the facility pool. Clare had taught her how to move water itself, which helped her manipulate complex objects, and more numerous ones. She conceptualized a grip on all three of them.

Maria’s push was about to reach Sara first, but she grabbed and nullified Maria’s oncoming focus with her defensive focus as easily as she would have stopped a child from pushing on her. The telekinetic equivalent of grabbing Maria’s wrist with her hand to block it.

As Sara drained energy from the air to perform her offensive push, frost settled on the van’s floor. She shoved that kinetic energy toward Maria and the guards, trying to restrain herself, since she didn’t want to kill them and didn’t understand this new power. Maria tried shielding herself and the guards with her second focus, but Sara pierced straight through that attempt. With their guns about to fire at her, she had to act fast.

The remaining force that broke through was . . . far too much. Maria’s eyes went blank, and blood shot out of her back, through her armor, spraying onto the wall. The blood of the two guards on either side of her did the same. Red gore painted the wall and the ground alike. Sara had meant to grip and push their three bodies back, but by focusing so much on water, she had mainly gripped their blood and insides by mistake. And she’d pushed it all back with insane force compared to what she’d intended, to get through Maria’s defense. How had she become so strong?

Maria and the two guards toppled to the asphalt like discarded marionettes, their lifeless bodies dead before impact. Maria’s head made a floppy crack as it landed, staring open-eyed as a line of blood oozed from the corner of her mouth.

Sara glanced over at Jolgen again. His body rested motionlessly against the wall. Catching her breath, she looked at Damien, as though somehow all of this might make him come back to life, but his eyes just stared to the side. There was no life to be found.

Focusing on her own hands, she mentally crushed the plasticuffs’ connector to free them. Then she ripped the tape off her mouth. “Damien!” she screamed, clutching his shirt and shaking him. “Damien!”

She heard the front left van door open. The driver, she realized.

An eerie silence set in, and neither she nor the driver moved. The hound had even stopped barking. Sara inched toward the back of the van and stepped out while readying one of her foci to push against any potential gunshots, widening its tip into a shield-like shape as she’d seen Fallon do, and making sure it was backed by enough force to counter a bullet on each square inch. It took an excessive amount of energy, but she somehow had so much of it to spare.

As soon as she rounded the van’s corner, a bang sounded out. The bullet stopped midair against her shield. The driver fired again, but that one stopped as well. Both bullets began falling toward the ground.

With fury churning through her mind, Sara’s first instinct was to thrust the falling bullets straight back through the guard’s armored chest. She intuitively felt that she could push the bullets faster than the gun had shot them, by an order of magnitude. She used her second focus to grip them while keeping her shield up with her first focus, but then she looked up at the face.

It was Jessica. The auburn-haired woman she’d choked out when escaping the facility. The guard Damien had wanted to spare.

Jessica lowered her pistol and looked around at the gore. “You monster,” she whispered, trembling.

Sara smiled, despite feeling nothing but rage. She, a monster?

Jessica tightened her jaw and stood up straighter. The hound began barking again from the middle of the van. Sara glanced at it, and it quieted, making only a faint whimper and then nothing.

She turned back to the guard and examined the details of her face. Was she ready to die? Killing someone felt as easy as glancing in their direction now, as far as her strange new powers were concerned. She could crush her throat, push her back with fatal force, or shoot a focus through her chest like an invisible spear. Maybe just rip the blood out again. There were multiple ways, all of them effortless.

Was this how Fallon had always felt? No, this amount of power seemed beyond even hers.

Jessica swallowed and met Sara’s eyes. “I . . . have a son,” she said. “He’s six.”

Sara kept staring. Normally that would have hit her hard, but she felt shockingly unconcerned. What did a single life matter? Damien was dead. Maria too. There were supposedly nine billion people in this world. Every guard she killed probably had a kid. Jessica had chosen to work at a black-ops genetic facility. Was she supposed to feel sympathetic now?

“So what?” Sara asked. “I don’t need witnesses.”

Jessica’s eyes widened, and Sara wondered what she looked like to her at this moment. Blood had dried across her face from Jolgen’s knife cuts earlier, and red-stained strands of blond hair crisscrossed her vision. Her slitted green eyes probably looked as though they glowed, light reflecting off of them from the parking lot lamps in the distance.

Jessica slowly put her pistol on the ground. “Look, I . . . don’t want to leave him alone. He doesn’t have a father. Can you understand?”

Sara tilted her head, watching Jessica put the gun down, studying her face as she spoke. Her own makeshift family was gone. Why should she care about this woman’s family? She pictured Damien’s blank, dead face, and her fury renewed itself. But then . . . that same face again. Damien was the one who’d insisted on trying to spare this woman to begin with. She couldn’t override his intention like that.

“Take off your boots,” Sara said.

“What?”

“Your boots. Take them off. And your gear belt. And vest.” She looked down at her own bare feet on the asphalt, standing in a pool of her victims’ blood. She’d never gotten a chance to put her shoes back on once they were captured in the forest, and didn’t even know where they’d ended up.

After a brief hesitation, Jessica unclasped her gear belt and dropped it to the ground, next to her pistol. Still trembling, she took off her armored vest followed by each boot, one by one. When she finished, she stood in her socks on the asphalt, avoiding the bloody area. Sara let the two bullets that she held aloft drop to the ground, hitting with two metallic clicks, followed by the sound of one of them rolling.

“His name’s Max,” Jessica said. “My son.”

“I don’t care,” Sara said, looking down at the gear. “Run.”

“Where?”

“Not here. Before I change my mind.” She flicked her eyes from the gear on the ground back up to Jessica’s face.

Jessica’s eyes went wide again, and she stepped back. She turned and opened the van’s middle door, and got the hound, which had remained quiet as death. Then she turned and ran, with the sound of her socks slapping on the pavement, along with the jingling of the hound’s collar. All the way to the tree line.

Sara looked around. A black van, some of its doors open, with lights on inside. Blood and bodies everywhere. Damien.

She went to the back of the van and looked at him. Still in the same position. She crawled in and checked his pulse. Nothing. A cut marred his temple, his eyes were vacant, and his neck rested at a strange angle.

“Damien,” she whispered, her eyes growing wet. “Please come back to me.”

She pushed down on his chest several times, then blew into his mouth. And repeated. And repeated. And checked his pulse. He was a corpse. After twenty-one years of life, he was gone, as fast as that. Almost by accident.

Sara lowered her head, tears dripping from her clenched eyes. Her heartbeat wasn’t pounding anymore; it’d gone eerily slow and soft. Rage had drained away into emptiness. As Damien lay there dead, she died with him. Her future—their future—was gone.

Regaining her composure after a few breaths, she looked around. This was a public place. The police would come soon.

Well, maybe I should kill them all when they do, she thought. Then she shook her head. No. Their plan had been to escape, get help, and go back for Clare and Marcus, others too, and shine a light on that wretched place. Damien was dead, and Sara with him, but that plan still existed. If she were to fail, it would mean Damien had failed. Stallard would turn his intentions toward Marcus and repeat everything that Damien had feared for the world. That malicious singularity, or whatever. That dark god.

She climbed out of the back of the van and glanced around again. Looking at Damien, she exhaled and mentally lifted his body out of the van, placing him on the ground away from the gore. Seeing him still bound, she mentally ripped apart his plasticuffs and threw them aside. She crouched down next to him, and with her hands she moved his arms to rest them peacefully at his sides. She closed his eyelids with her fingers and leaned down to kiss him one last time.

Damien, she thought. I’m so sorry.

The silence was unbearable. As she put on Jessica’s boots, holster, and vest, with her hooded sweatshirt on top, she ran through her actions to get away from it. It’d been a mistake to go for Jolgen’s gun. It was her fault that Damien was dead. And when had she gained this power? Why couldn’t she have realized it minutes earlier? What was going on?

She reached up and touched her face, feeling the rough, dry blood and the sting of torn flesh. Everything else felt so numb that the sharp spike of pain from her fingers touching her sliced skin almost felt refreshing. A painful jolt of life amid a numb sea of death.

She walked over to Jolgen’s body, uncaring about stepping through the blood, and looked down into his blank eyes. He stared out like a fool, mouth agape. His death made the world better. But she didn’t feel the satisfaction that she’d imagined she would after all these years.

She pointed Jessica’s pistol at his forehead and pulled the trigger, partially to make sure he was deader than dead, but really to see if it would give her a rush.

That’s for Clare, she thought, as the gunshot rattled her ears. But she felt nothing. Only frustration. The bullet casing clinked on the ground, bounced twice and rolled for a moment, then left her with more silence.

She wanted to break something, wanted to shatter the world. Her eyes landed on the van, sitting there so uselessly. She gripped its chassis with a focus and mentally hurled it, her arm moving and body twisting as if throwing a fastball.

The metal chassis moaned as the van tore from the ground. It soared silently through the night air, hundreds of feet, before smashing down at the far end of the rest stop in a burst of glass and steel. The sound, violent and raw, barely began to quench what she craved. There was no headache. No strain. It’d felt easier than lifting her paper cranes, and she didn’t know why.

Sirens whined in the distance. It was time to go, or she’d have to start killing police as they came. She planted one of her bracers on the ground, used her corresponding focus to lift herself carefully, and began flying a few feet off the ground toward the tree line to make herself harder to track. Behind her, the van exploded into flames.

She felt like a different person. Dead, but reborn.







Part III





Lost and Found








Chapter 29



Two hours after Jade’s arrest, Asim found himself at a military police station in Fort Hamilton, a small Army base on Brooklyn’s coast. Although it wasn’t set up for it properly, it was the closest installation capable of temporarily holding someone as dangerous as Jade. From the moment of the arrest, he’d started making calls to his bosses, and after a quick interagency coordination between INSCOM and the Stolguard facility, this was the chosen spot for now.

Stallard was flying in via helicopter, and much to Asim’s frustration, he’d been given a direct order from Major General Scholl not to interrogate Jade until Stallard arrived. The order likely came from above even her.

Jade sat handcuffed to a chair, blindfolded, with six soldiers surrounding her with rifles. One of them held the base’s only laser rifle, aimed squarely at her back at all times, and there were dozens more soldiers on standby.

As the next best thing he could do, Asim took a seat across from Veronica in the next room over, since she had also been arrested. A strong but pleasant scent of frankincense and flowers suffused the air around her.

“I want my phone call,” Veronica said, chewing gum. It wasn’t clear where she’d gotten it; she had been searched. She crossed her arms and tapped her foot impatiently, as though she was the one being inconvenienced here. Asim, Ava, and a sergeant named Durst who worked at this place were in the room with her.

“You’re not owed one; this isn’t that kind of arrest,” Asim said. “You’re in a military police station, and this is a national security matter. Unless you start talking and help me understand what’s going on, you’ll be in a world of trouble. And where’d you get that gum?”

“What about my cat?” she asked. “Scorpio.”

“Officers are searching your apartment as we speak,” Durst said. “The cat’s probably been transferred to animal services, and you can reclaim it later if you’re released.”

“They better take good care of him. Can I have tea or somethin’?” she asked. “Which one of you is the good cop in this scene?” Her eyes darted to each of them.

Asim reached up and pinched the bridge of his nose. He was bruised and sore from several unnecessary punches to the face, and he would much rather have been talking to Jade right now.

“I can go get her some from the kitchen area, if that’s okay, Sergeant Durst,” Ava said. Durst nodded, and Ava walked out.

“There’s the good cop,” Veronica said.

Asim cleared his throat. “Look, Veronica, this can—”

“It’s Jitters to you, asshole.”

“Look. Jitters. This can go smoothly. I can be a good cop too. I thought for weeks that you were either captive or dead, and we worked so hard to find you. I certainly didn’t expect you to be harboring this terrorist like a friend. What happened here?”

Her foot-tapping intensified. She bit her lip, looking first at Asim, then at Durst, then back at Asim. “Oh, I was a captive all right,” she said. “Just a cooperative one on account of not wantin’ to get magically strangled. What do they call it? Stockholm Syndrome? I had a case of that stuff. Real bad.”

Ava came back in with a paper cup filled with green tea and put it on the table next to Veronica.

“Thanks a bunch, lovely,” Veronica said with a wink. “At least someone around here’s got manners.” Ava blushed and sat down.

“Jitters. You’re in a dangerous position here,” Asim said. “I have no desire to bring trouble to you, but trouble’s coming unless I do something to stop it. Personally, I don’t give a shit about your muggings or illegal sex work. I’m focused on national security. If you help me make sense of what went on here, I might be able to get you off easy.”

Veronica sipped her tea and smirked.

“We have an arrest warrant out for Aisha, too,” Asim said. “She’s the listed owner of that apartment unit. Did she know she harbored a terrorist?”

“I want immunity,” Veronica said, leaning forward. “I’ll tell you everything, and you let me go. Scorpio is a gentle soul. He needs me.”

“That’s not how this works. I can’t simply let you go. But, depending on what you tell me, I can strongly push things in the right direction. My focus is on keeping people safe, not whatever else you’re into.”

She narrowed her eyes and bit her lip again, then made a show of fixing her voluminous hair for several seconds as she leaned back. “What do you wanna know?”

“Why were you helping Jade?” Asim asked.

“Her name’s Sara,” Veronica said. “Or at least it used to be. Managed to pry that outta her on the first night. Jade’s just what the media calls her. Aren’t you a detective?”

Asim eyed Ava. She was taking notes. Sara was a new name to them in this case. “Okay, why were you helping Sara?” Asim asked.

“Well, at first she made me,” Veronica said. “She was bein’ all scary that first night, but then I saw her face had been gashed open. I was scared at first, but then I realized she only needed some stitches and a warm place to sleep. Aisha’s a nurse. So, I told the girl to put away the pistol, that she wouldn’t need that with me, and to come to our place for the night. I said I’d take care of her.”

Asim glanced over at Durst, then Ava, before looking back to Veronica. “So, you invited a murderer back to your home?”

“Well, technically Aisha’s home. But yeah. She wasn’t happy about me bringin’ back a stray at first, but I told Sara to just not talk that night, on account of her being so creepy when she talks, and that I’d handle it. Aisha agreed to let her stay the night and stitched up her face and arm, and then I got Aisha to extend the stay.”

“How’d you convince her?”

Veronica shrugged. “I know a thing or two about gettin’ people to see things my way.”

Asim thought for a moment. “We saw that your street colleague’s bitcoin moved from one blockchain address to another two days after his death in the alley. That was you, right?” He purposely overstated it; they only had an 87 percent confidence estimate that the bitcoin belonged to him in the first place, and they weren’t sure that Veronica was the one to move it.

“I, um.” Her face went stiff.

Bingo. “Did you move it, or did someone else?” Asim asked.

She started tapping her foot again. “Well, I don’t wanna get Sara in trouble . . .”

“She’s already in trouble, including for killing your colleagues in the alley.”

Veronica eyed him. “Those thugs she, uh, dealt with . . . Sara grabbed their stuff, and I told her that one of them carries a lotta bitcoin on his phone. And his ring’s got a hidden key for it, too. I offered to show her what I know about how he stores it and said we could split it three ways if we can put the pieces together and get it. So, I showed her, and we figured it out.”

“Thugs?” Asim asked. “Weren’t they your partners? Your crew?”

“Not really,” Veronica said. “I, uh, heh. Trust me, there’s no love lost there. They made life hard for folks like me. I was only workin’ with them on the temp to help pay off a friend’s debt. Being free of them is pretty good, you know?” She took a long sip from her tea and crossed one long leg over the other, more relaxed.

“So, you’re claiming you did this out of pragmatism. Sara killed your colleagues and threatened you, but you responded instead with kindness and shifted the nature of the encounter toward a milder direction. You became less of a captive, and more of a helper. And with the bitcoin, you got Aisha onboard and benefited yourself in the process.”

“Well, that’s kind of a fancy-pants way of sayin’ it, but yeah. The girl just needed some care is all.”

“What happened in the days that followed?”

“Well, first I got Aisha to calm down and ignore Sara’s weird eyes and the creepy things she would say. The bitcoin plan made it worth everyone’s while. Sara cleaned herself up good and had a meal, and Aisha stitched her cuts. Then Sara was gonna give herself a buzzcut as a disguise and go on the run, but I said that would be a crime given how cute she was. She didn’t care, but I certainly did. So, I convinced her to dye it instead, and then I did it for her since I know a thing or two. From blond to black. Well, technically very dark brown. If you dye it pure black, then you get that inky gothic look which looks like shit you know, while very dark brown gives you that natural black hair look. I told her that would stand out less than a buzz cut. And—”

“Are you aware that she attacked NewsCon and the Pentagon in the subsequent weeks? She’s killed about a hundred people.”

“Oh, was that her?” Veronica said with a confident smile.

Asim frowned.

“Hey, it’s not polite to pry into roommates’ private matters,” she said. “And as you may have noticed, she’s not the easiest person to talk to. What she gets up to on her own time is her business.”

“It’s a felony to harbor someone sought on a felony warrant,” Asim said. “That’s worth several years in prison. Why didn’t you or Aisha call the police? You had several opportunities.”

“She was convincin’. She said I might have been compromised by surveillance, so I should lie low. She said Aisha should keep actin’ normally. Said if we turned on her, she would get violent, so we shouldn’t go there.”

“What about when she left the apartment to commit her crimes? Why not contact the police then?”

Veronica shrugged, and rotated the foot of her crossed-over leg in slow circles as she spoke. “I mean, she could come back and find us. And, uh, she did seem to have some good reasons for whatever she may or may not have been up to.”

“Such as?”

“Stoppin’ the end of the world or some such. From a robot god, I think. Or a cyborg god, I forget which one.” She scratched her head and frowned in thought. “Look, she’s weird as hell and barely speaks, but she was nice enough to Aisha and me. And Scorpio, too. He’s a great judge of character, Scorpio is, and he liked her a whole lot. Turns out she’d never seen a cat in real life before, and she pet him whenever he went over to her. Can you believe that? Someone never seein’ a cat? Imagine watchin’ that interaction for the first time.”

“So basically, you could have contacted the police but didn’t want to. I bet . . . it’s because Sara controlled the address that the bitcoin was moved to, and she didn’t divvy it out yet, did she? It was like a bribe that you wouldn’t get if you turned her in. You and Aisha convinced yourselves that her motivations were good enough and that you weren’t doing anything wrong because . . . she was fun to watch with cats?”

“Like I said, Stockholm Syndrome,” Veronica said with a mischievous smile. “A real bad case. I was so scared and vulnerable and latched onto what I could to survive, you know?”

Asim sighed and decided to shift this in a different direction. “Why is she so sickly looking?”

“That’s not polite.”

He raised his eyebrows. “She’s lost weight rapidly since the day you two met. From her newsroom appearance to her Pentagon assault, and from then to now.”

“Because she don’t eat,” she said.

“She was literally eating when I came in today.”

“Barged in, is more like it.”

Asim leaned back, crossed his arms, and waited for more.

“It’s not that she never eats. She just . . . barely eats. Maybe one day a week.”

“Do you know why?”

“Not sure. She just don’t want to. Makes her sick, apparently. I kept tryin’ to get her to eat more. Even offered to cook all sorts of fancy things. I’m a pretty good cook, you know. Honestly. But she rarely would. I’m worried about her. She might have cancer or somethin’. Maybe radiation related to her superpowers?”

“Why doesn’t she have most of her telekinesis now?”

“I don’t know. That’s news to me.” She shrugged. “I thought for sure she’d snap your neck with her mind when you barged in.”

“Do you know what her next move was going to be?” Asim asked. “An initial search of your place found that she’d looked up various special forces military bases in the country, as well as military R&D funding hubs, with sketched diagrams for them that might represent attack plans. And she had lists of politicians with various notes on them that my team is still looking through. She apparently searched for ones with anti-military positions. Maybe seeking allies?”

“She didn’t talk about any of that type of stuff. Or almost anythin’ else, really. She said it would be better for us if we didn’t know. And I stayed inside, lettin’ Aisha handle all our outside needs. Sara was firm about that, what with all the cameras out in the world.”

Asim heard activity out in the corridor. He looked at Durst, then stood and opened the door to check.

Stallard had arrived with four armored operatives, all wearing sunglasses. Two women and two giant men, the latter being roughly seven feet tall each. The men carried laser rifles, while the women had holstered pistols. Stallard himself had a standard assault rifle slung by a cord around his shoulder.

“Where is she?” Stallard asked, looking around.

The senior noncommissioned officer in charge of the military police station, a woman in her fifties Asim had already met, stepped forward and offered her hand. “I’m Master Sergeant Skylar Smith. Dr. Stallard, I presume? We have two of your suspects in these two rooms here, and a third on the way.”

Stallard gave her a distracted handshake and turned toward the two rooms she’d pointed at. None of his four operatives removed their sunglasses, despite being indoors. Asim wagered a guess what color their eyes were. Stallard had come here packing some serious power.

“Santiago, go check,” Stallard said. The largest man nodded and walked over to the room where Jade—Sara?—was held, and went in. “Colonel Rahal, did I understand your report correctly? Her abilities are mostly drained?”

“It seems that way, Doctor,” Asim said. “Other than a small tug on my rifle, she didn’t use telekinesis while I arrested her, despite it unfortunately turning rather violent. But I recognize her face up close from the Pentagon; it’s the same person. And I’ve obtained initial answers from her roommate—or captive, depending on how you look at it—but we’ve held off on interrogating Jade as ordered.”

“I’ll handle the interrogation,” Stallard said. “When I’m finished, I’ll provide you with a redacted version to help close your case out.”

Asim gritted his teeth. This wasn’t what he’d been told by his bosses. “This case falls squarely within ACI jurisdiction, Doctor. I get to be present for any interrogation.”

“Nobody gets to be present,” Stallard said. He reached into his beige trench coat pocket and pulled out a phone, then displayed a code on the screen. “This is an emergency authorization from the Secretary of Defense for private enhanced interrogation techniques, justified for national security, and because the subject is not legally a citizen. We must determine the precise nature of the threat immediately.”

That particularly large man, Santiago, came out of Jade’s interrogation room. “It’s her,” he said.

“Okay, go in,” Stallard said, gesturing to the others. “Master Sergeant Smith, was it? Rotate your men out and disconnect the camera feeds from that room. I need privacy for this.” Santiago, along with the other large man and both of Stallard’s women, went into Jade’s room, sunglasses still on.

“I’ll need to scan that code to validate it, Doctor,” Smith said. Stallard held out his phone, she scanned it with hers, and the approval ping verified that it was signed by the Secretary of Defense’s key. “Very well,” she said, though she didn’t look happy about it.

Asim couldn’t stand to stay there. He slammed open the front door and walked out of the military police building. The crisp autumn air of Fort Hamilton helped clear his head. Pacing back and forth, he tried to think as gulls squawked stupidly overhead.

Then he called Brigadier General Davis.

“Yes, Colonel?” Davis answered.

“Sir, Stallard’s not letting me have access to the interrogation at all. I followed orders to hold off until he arrived, but now he’s going around me. This is ACI jurisdiction, too.”

“This came from the top,” Davis said. “From Major General Scholl, and above her to General Rodriguez and the SecDef himself. Believe me, I fought as best as I could here to get you access. There’s nothing I can do. They’ve managed to keep the FBI away from the whole base for now, too.”

“They’re going to torture her before I even get a chance to ask anything. She hesitated to answer my questions in prior encounters because she was concerned that anything she said would be used to find her. Now that she’s in custody, I believe I can get her to actually talk. But they’re going to mess that up. I don’t trust Stallard at all. Sir.”

“Prior encounters?” Davis asked.

Shit. He hadn’t wanted to reveal that yet. “It’s a long story, sir.” Asim waited. Silence on the line, lasting seconds.

“Look, I’ll try again from my side, but no promises,” Davis said finally.

“Thank you, sir.” Jesus Christ.

After hanging up, Asim turned and punched the brick wall of the building. Hard enough to break skin and draw blood.

“Fuck!” he shouted, even angrier now thanks to the pain. He went back to pacing instead, shaking out his hand. If he could speak to Jade now, he knew he’d get somewhere with her and bring clarity to this absolute clusterfuck of a situation. What little trust he’d manage to establish with her was being shattered in there.

A few minutes later, Master Sergeant Smith came out, sighed, and looked around. She nodded politely, then pulled out a pack of cigarettes and gestured for him to take one.

“Thanks, I don’t smoke,” he said, leaning against the wall. “Probably not a bad day to start, though.”

She chuckled, lit one for herself, and exhaled a long plume as she leaned against the wall next to him. “I don’t like this any more than you do, Colonel. I certainly don’t need one of those documentaries coming out about how torture occurred under my watch.”

“Walking in there, sunglasses on indoors like they’re all from the fucking Matrix, and doing whatever they want,” Asim said.

“What’s that, sir?” she asked.

“An old movie. Good one. And you can drop the sirs out here. Doesn’t fucking matter.”

“Ah, I think I’ve heard of it.”

They stood in silence for a while as she continued to smoke.

“Let me know if you need anything, Colonel,” she said when she finished. He nodded, she went back inside, and he stayed out there, thinking. Eventually, Ava came out, face pale. “I can hear screams coming from the room now, sir.”

Asim rubbed his temple. He’d never felt this helpless. He took a deep breath and went back inside, and Ava followed. At first, he heard nothing, but after a few moments a faint scream reached his ears. He stepped back into Veronica’s room.

“What are they doin’ to her?” Veronica asked, eyes wide. It was just her and Durst in here, both looking uncomfortable.

“I don’t know,” Asim said, barely sparing her a glance. He grabbed a chair, dragged it over to the wall that separated Jade’s room from Veronica’s, and took a seat with his head leaning back against the wall, eyes closed. He couldn’t be in Jade’s room, but he could still try to listen. Because, well, fuck Stallard.



After more than an hour of hearing occasional gurgles and screams—and laughs?—from the torture room, Ava felt sick to her stomach.

This day had started surprisingly well. But now their case had practically been stolen from them, and in the most horrifying way.

“Who the hell keeps laughing in there?” Colonel Rahal asked, breaking a long silence in the room and glancing around. He hadn’t looked this angry in years.

“That sounds like Sara, actually,” Veronica said. “She laughed a couple times when Aisha stitched up her face cuts, and when she tended to her shoulder burn. I told you she’s weird.”

“I don’t feel great. I’m going to use the lavatory,” Ava said, standing.

She left the room, walked down the hall, and entered the lavatory. After using the facilities, she splashed some cold water on her face to calm down and prepare herself for what she was about to do.

On the way back, she walked into the wrong room as though it was by accident. Sara’s room. Just barged right in with a smile past a shocked hallway guard before he had time to respond.

“Colonel, do you thi—Oh,” she said, looking up in mock surprise as the guard finally reached in front of her chest to hold her back. The smaller of the two female operatives held her palm a few inches from Sara’s shoulder wound, which had fresh blood dripping out of it as Sara thrashed around and bit her lip. She was still handcuffed to the chair, still blindfolded, and her ankles had now been duct-taped to the chair legs. Her black-dyed hair was soaked, and the floor had puddles of water all around. The room smelled of stale sweat.

“Again. What triggered your . . .” said the small woman, holding her palm to Sara’s wound. Dr. Stallard gestured as though to stop her from talking, and everyone turned to look at the doorway.

“Sorry,” Ava said with what she hoped was an apologetic face. She backed out, and the other woman in the room made a motion with her hand. The door magically swung shut inches from her face.

The guard next to her stood there, mouth agape. Ava met his eyes, raised her eyebrows, and shrugged emphatically. “Oops. Wrong door. It’s been a long day.” He was young and worked at this little military base rather than for Dr. Stallard, so she wasn’t sure if he was more rattled by the sight of torture or her intrusion. Either way, she patted him on the shoulder and went back to Veronica’s interrogation room next door.

“I heard some commotion in there,” Colonel Rahal said as she entered.

“That was me, sir. I accidentally walked in on them. These rooms don’t lock from the inside, so that detainees can’t barricade themselves in if left alone. This station wasn’t really built for war crimes. Anyway, they’re peeling open her shoulder burn wound. I think they’ve been waterboarding her, too. They’re asking her what triggered . . . something. It was cut short by my entry.”

“Triggered?”

“Her defection, her powers, her killing spree—something like that maybe, sir.”

“Doesn’t Stallard already know about her powers? He certainly knows her reason for defection, and her killing spree,” he said. “Unless she lied to me.”

Ava shrugged. “I don’t know, sir.”







Chapter 30



Asim waited, feeling tension mount with each passing minute. After the second hour in the room, Stallard finally sent out one of his operatives—he’d heard Stallard call him Santiago—for Master Sergeant Smith.

“Dr. Stallard is finished now. He requests the camera feeds be turned back on and for the other soldiers to be sent back in to relieve us from guard duty,” Santiago said.

Asim made sure to pre-position himself in the corridor to catch this. Stallard and the rest of his operatives came out, but Stallard went straight to the men’s restroom, and his other male operative followed as a sole bodyguard. After a minute, Asim followed.

At the sinks, rinsing his hands beside Stallard, Asim spoke. “You know, it’s pretty fucking stupid to jump straight to bad cop, when good cop is an option. I might’ve been able to get what you’re looking for out of her.”

“What makes you think I failed to acquire what I need?” Stallard asked.

“Your shit mood.”

Stallard paused and eyed him. “Well, my determination is that she’s too dangerous to transport or keep in custody, since the answers to certain questions elude us. I’m going to motion to have her put down tonight. If she had given me those answers, the outcome could have been different. I don’t relish having to do any of this. It’s out of necessity.”

Asim’s chest went tight. “You can’t just—”

“Are you slow of learning, Colonel? She’s not protected by the same rights as citizens are, especially given what she has done and how much attention she has brought. Certain risks cannot be taken at this scale. You are out of your depth on this.”

“Give me one chance,” Asim said. “You and your goons can be in the room. Unlike you, I don’t have that many secrets to hide. I’ll ask a couple of questions for you, and a couple of questions for my unit to have closure. I have a rapport with her. Or had, I guess.”

Stallard seemed to think as he dried his hands. “I’ll give you five minutes, Colonel. Her telekinesis was once trivial, but then it surpassed all my other subjects’, including my best. I need to know how, and why she seems to have lost it again. Has she been hiding it all along? Or did it emerge somehow, and what was the trigger if so? She cannot be safely transported or securely held in custody unless I know this information. That is my reason for this distasteful business.”

“Ten minutes,” Asim said. “I’ll ask that for you, and a few other questions, and you can have your people present.”

“Five.” He turned toward his bodyguard. “Carter, go tell the master sergeant to reverse the prior order. Have her cut the camera feed and send her soldiers out of the room again.” The big man nodded and walked out. Once they were alone, Stallard turned back toward Asim. “Whatever her appearance, remember they are weapons, Colonel. Underneath their masks, they’re designed to kill.”

“And yet they still feel pain,” Asim said.

Stallard sighed and walked toward the door.

“I have to ask,” Asim said. “Why do you have a standard rifle rather than a laser, when you obviously know the nature of the threat?”

Stallard looked over his shoulder. “My back is too old for that kind of thing, Colonel. Those heavy battery packs are for the young. But as I’ve said, telekineticists can be overwhelmed by threats from multiple directions. I know my way around a firearm when necessary.”

“Fair enough,” Asim said. The old man was tougher than he looked, perhaps.

They left the restroom, and Asim went straight to Jade’s room. She still sat in the same chair as before, though now she was slumped over, leaning forward. Her hair and shirt were wet, and a line of blood oozed from the wound on her right shoulder. Her thin face was swollen and bruised from their fight in Aisha’s apartment. Three of her fingernails had been ripped out. She seemed to be unconscious, though with the blindfold it was hard to tell for sure.

After a few minutes of commotion and setup, it was just Asim, Stallard, and his four operatives in there with Jade. “Take off her blindfold, please,” Asim said.

“Absolutely not,” Stallard said.

“If she had her powers, she would have used them at some point in the past couple hours of agony, don’t you think?”

“It’s not worth the risk.”

“It is if we want true answers. I’ll take that risk. Maybe that’s your problem.” Asim got up and untied Jade’s blindfold himself. Stallard nodded to his people to let him do it.

Her eyes were closed. She remained slumped forward, wet and bloody, but she stirred a bit, as though in a dream.

“You guys really fucked this up,” Asim said. “Jade. Or, Sara. Can you hear me?” As violent as she was, Asim couldn’t help but see a woman not much older than his own daughter in the chair, which gave him a chill. He tapped her cheek lightly, then did it again more firmly, and her eyes opened a bit. “Here, drink this,” he said, holding a cup of water to her lips. “I’m sorry.”

She hesitated, eyes barely open, but then sniffed the cup and drank. Asim noticed that Stallard had quietly positioned his two big men with laser rifles to stand behind her, holding their guns toward her back, outside of her field of view. Stallard himself stood behind her as well. Smart. That left just Asim and the two female operatives in her field of view. They probably had powers like hers.

“Sara, is it?” Asim asked.

She blinked several times and squinted, seemingly sensitive to the light. Her pupils were inhumanly large and round rather than the vertical slits he’d grown used to, since she had been without light for a while. That made her look less aggressive. But they swiftly constricted back toward those familiar predatory slits as the ceiling lights shone on them. She slowly glanced left and right, taking in the people behind her, then turned forward again and stared at him through the damp hair hanging over her face.

“You won’t talk to me?” he asked.

“Why would I?” she whispered. Her voice was hoarse.

“I tried to prevent this from happening to you,” he said.

“You put me here. I should’ve killed you at the Pentagon. My mistake.”

“You’re at risk of being put down tonight. All you have to do is answer a few questions and you’ll prevent that,” he said. “It’s not my decision. I’m trying to help.”

She still stared at him, unblinking now. She looked exhausted rather than frightened.

“Why did your telekinesis grow strong, then weak again?”

“I don’t know,” she said. “I answered that already.”

“Why are you losing weight?”

“Because I get sick when I eat. My extra power took its toll, I guess. I’m not a scientist.”

“You always had that power, didn’t you?”

“I already told Stallard, no. Why would I have been grappling guards and cutting myself on razor wire if I had this power all along?” She gestured with her chin toward her right shoulder, likely to draw attention to the scars on her right forearm. “It was a temporary deal, apparently.”

“When was that? With the razor wire and guards?”

“When we escaped his facility. A month ago.”

“Who is ‘we’? Where’s the second captive from the rest stop incident?”

She furrowed her brow. “What?”

“There was one African American body found at the scene with marks on his wrists. A captive. And there was evidence of another one missing. Two sets of broken plasticuffs. Footprints. Did you kill that other one, or what happened?” Asim said.

“That was Damien. The second captive was me. Or are you referring to me letting Jessica go? That’s another person I probably shouldn’t have spared.”

Asim scratched his head.

“Jessica is one of Raphael Costa’s guards,” Stallard said from behind Sara. “C17 and Damien left our facility without authorization, and they were being brought back safely by our team, until C17 here killed everyone except that one guard, took her gear, and caused the mayhem you have seen since, Colonel.”

“I said I wasn’t the one who killed Damien!” Sara shouted, her voice still hoarse. She leaned forward with a vicious expression and pulled tight on her steel cuffs against the back of the chair, causing all four operatives in the room to startle. Her eyes grew wet. She squeezed them shut and looked down.

“What do you . . .” Asim began, but he stopped as she started to move again. Slowly this time.

She looked back toward Stallard out of the corner of her scarred left eye. Both his male operatives tensed and pointed their guns more firmly at her. “Damien wanted to escape the hell you were causing him, and that you would bring to the world through him if you kept at it. Until Jolgen killed him. Not me. How many times do I have to say it?” She turned back and stared at each of the two female operatives in front of her. “Zarina. Jolce. Look at me. He only calls you by your names now to use you. None of you know what you’re fighting for, or what’s coming.”

“You speak without knowledge, C17,” Stallard said. “Damien was on the cusp of something truly revolutionary. Marcus as well.”

“A revolutionary level of danger,” Sara said, her eyes glancing down and not meeting anyone’s face. “Damien told you, but you dismissed him. So, he hid the full extent of his abilities from you.” She was smiling now, but her eyes were aggressive, a combination Asim had noticed from her whenever she got pressed. He looked around the room, and one of the women seemed particularly agitated.

“You killed Maria. What did she ever do?” that woman said, as if on cue. The taller one with dark skin. Asim wasn’t sure which was Zarina or Jolce.

“I did,” Sara agreed, looking up at her and softening her voice. “Not on purpose, but to escape. Now, killing Jolgen, that was on purpose.” She looked back over her shoulder at the biggest guy, Santiago, and smiled enough to show her teeth. He stared back at her with an unreadable expression.

“All experiments at the facility are done with utmost caution,” Stallard said. “Damien exaggerates.”

Sara shook her head. “He experienced it. Not you. Anyway, you can all kill me if you want. I don’t care anymore. I’m done trying to protect you from yourselves.”

Asim began to ask another question, but Stallard spoke up. “That’s enough, Colonel. We’re finished here.”

“One more,” Asim said, looking over at Stallard. “Relevant for my case.”

“This has gone off the rails already, Colonel.”

Asim nodded and stood up, then looked back down at Sara and spoke again anyway. “You posted social media messages about domestic assassinations and other things. Would you go on the record for that, if there’s a trial?”

“Yes,” she said, barely more than a whisper.

“This is over,” Stallard said. “Santiago, please remove the colonel. Jolce, put her blindfold back on.”

Asim let Santiago escort him out, and they waited in the corridor with Smith, Ava, and several guards. Asim eyed Ava and discretely signaled for her to slip down the corridor, farther off to the side. She understood.

A few minutes later, Stallard emerged with two more of his operatives, leaving the shorter one apparently named Jolce in the room with Sara.

“Master Sergeant,” Stallard said, pointing back toward the open doorway. “You can rotate your men back in now. We need to plan our next steps.”

“Before you do anything rash like kill her,” Asim said, “I’m going to call my headquarters. We need more time to sort out jurisdictional authority on something so extreme.”

Santiago shifted his gaze toward Asim and tightened his grip on his weapon. “The doctor has already presented authorization.”

Asim took a step forward and looked up at the big man, keeping his voice calm. “For interrogation, not murder. And from a politician who isn’t present. Here, in the flesh, we need more checks first. Unless you feel like causing a scene.”

Santiago held his stare for a few seconds, then glanced toward Stallard. The other two operatives kept their eyes locked on Asim. Smith nervously eyed her own men. Absolutely no one was paying attention to Ava, far off to the side as she was, where Asim had positioned her in case things got out of hand. She had a concealed carry and a surprise angle. As hopelessly outmatched as they were, Asim couldn’t accept not having any options if Stallard’s team decided to get all “black ops” in here.

“Patience, Colonel,” Stallard said, drawing out each syllable. “I’m sure we all have calls to make.” He glanced toward Santiago, then Smith, and back toward Asim. “I grant that C17’s lost power seems genuine. For now, she’s useful alive to understand more details, so I won’t push for deletion tonight. But I need her back at my facility, with more secure conditions and proper equipment.”

Asim felt a flicker of relief. But still, once Stallard brought her to his facility, he’d lose access to her, and the case could go cold forever.

“We’ll make our calls, then,” Asim said, pulling out his phone. “It’s not clear you have authorization to transport her yet.” He pointed toward her room. “And she needs medical attention. Torture authorization or whatever you’re calling it doesn’t last indefinitely.”

Stallard eyed the clock on the wall. “It’s getting late anyway, and I can’t risk bringing her back on a single helicopter in the dark. I’ll organize a larger transport fleet to fly her out tomorrow during daylight, to ensure there is plenty of firepower and visibility. I trust that our jurisdictions will have been fully sorted by then.” He gave Asim a knowing look, then turned toward Smith and softened his voice. “For tonight, keep her sedated, blindfolded, and under heavy guard, Master Sergeant. My operatives will rotate one or two at a time as well, to bolster your defenses.”



An hour later, things had partially settled down.

Stallard had been assigned an undisclosed residence on the base by Fort Hamilton’s commander to retire for the night. Master Sergeant Smith had seen to it that Sara was cleaned up, given medical care, and transferred to more comfortable psychiatric restraints on a bed. She was offered a rations bar but had refused it, then was given a heavy enough dose of sedation to put a horse to sleep. Stallard’s operatives made sure nobody could get a word in with her, as per their boss’s orders.

Veronica and Aisha had been jailed on site for the night in the building’s holding cells. Representatives from the FBI had finally managed to get access to the base and had spent hours questioning them, and Jolce asked them some questions as well, on behalf of Stallard’s team.

Asim had called both Davis and Scholl to update them and try to get their support to push back on Stallard’s unilateral control, but there’d been limited progress on that front. Davis seemed to be in Asim’s corner, but Scholl was not. Since Stallard had the fucking Secretary of Defense on his side, working around him was almost impossible.

Later, a CIA representative arrived, followed by reinforcements from a nearby military base, bringing four more laser rifles and plenty of hands to wield them on rotation. Extra security drones hummed throughout the night sky over the base.

Asim and Ava booked rooms at a small hotel adjacent to Fort Hamilton. After trying to retire at a reasonable hour for the night, Asim couldn’t sleep, so after midnight he grabbed a beer from the mini-bar and walked down to the lobby, stepped outside, and gazed out at the parking lot to think in the fresh coastal night air. As fresh as it could be in Brooklyn, anyway.

“Sir?” came Ava’s voice. He turned to see her sitting on a bench in casual attire. Her hair was loose instead of pulled back into her typical bun, and she tucked her knees up against her chest.

“Can’t sleep either?” Asim asked.

“Not really, sir.” Her voice was quiet.

Asim sighed. “Anything in particular?” He hadn’t seen her this subdued in years, which was unnerving.

Ava shook her head. “None of it seems right.”

He waited for more, but nothing came, so he broke the silence himself. “Jade, or Sara, is dangerous, no doubt. But we mostly know what happened with her case now. The question we need to answer is whether the worst things she’s claiming about Stallard’s program are true. If so, that falls under our jurisdiction. Potential insider threats. An expanded case rather than a solved one.”

“But we’re blocked on all fronts,” Ava said. “All we have are her words. Against everything else.”

He nodded. “Frankly, this kind of shit is why I left foreign work in the first place.” He walked over and sat on the bench beside her, taking a sip of his beer as he did. “I hated feeling queasy after a mission, wondering if I was on the right side or not. With counterintelligence, we’re always on the right side, keeping things secure, both people and data, and that makes things easier. But this one . . . I don’t know what to think.”







Chapter 31



Jade woke up in bed again, still in darkness.

She had slept on and off for a while, but she couldn’t tell how long. Was it still night, or already the next day? Her head was spinning, and exhaustion pulled down like an anchor. The drugs mercifully numbed some of her pain, but they also numbed some of her mind. And she needed her mind, still. A little while longer.

How many guards pointed their guns at her this very moment? And how many wielded those terrible laser types? Was Santiago, or Jolce, or any of the others among them?

It felt strange hearing her name again. Sara. That person seemed so distant. As far as she was concerned, Sara was dead. Monsters didn’t have names.

Despite all the waterboarding, the tearing of her burnt shoulder wound by Jolce, and the ripping of her nails, she’d managed to keep her most important secret to herself. Now she needed time for that secret to take effect. Only a little longer . . .



“Aisha,” Asim said as he walked into the room. “Good morning. We didn’t get to meet yesterday. I’m Asim Rahal. I’d like to understand why you harbored a wanted felon.”

He sat down in an interrogation room across from Aisha, a dark-skinned woman in her early thirties, and smiled as he slid over a cup of coffee. She didn’t have a criminal record, and she worked as a nurse at a Brooklyn hospital. By all accounts, an upstanding citizen.

“I plead the Fifth,” she said, then took a sip of the coffee. “I told the others that last night, too. I’m not as stupid as Jitters to talk without a lawyer.”

“Well, Jitters was quite helpful, actually,” Asim said. “I’d like to ensure she doesn’t get into too much trouble, given how cooperative she was. She already told us everything, but I want to hear it from you as well.”

Aisha crossed her arms, saying nothing.

Asim continued. “It’s just, I’d hate for you to take the fall for this by default since the apartment’s registered under your name. You seem like a good person. The military can do some weird things for unusual cases like this, like wait a couple years to go to trial and keep someone in custody for national security reasons during the whole process.”

She stared at him, too stiffly. Rattled, but trying to hide it.

He shrugged. “I’d really hate to see something like that happen here, you know?”

She studied his face, thinking for a second, and sighed. “Look, I was trying to help someone out. The woman was cut up when Jitters brought her home that night. I didn’t know she’d go on to do what she did. And then what was I supposed to do?”

“I don’t know, call the police, maybe?” Asim asked. “After the newsroom incident when she came back to your place.”

“And risk getting killed?”

“You could have left the apartment for work, called the police, and not returned until she got arrested. This is basic stuff.”

“She could’ve blown up the whole block. That’d put all my neighbors at risk. Plus, if Jitters had tried to leave too, then Sara would have been suspicious. She let me leave for work and other duties, but she convinced Jitters to stay in.”

“She didn’t threaten Jitters to stay in? She convinced her?”

“I plead the Fifth.”

“Are you claiming there was no way to alert police safely without causing a hostage situation? What about the times when Sara herself left the apartment?”

“I. Plead. The. Fifth.”

“It was the money, right? You kept quiet so you’d get the money. If police came to arrest Sara, you wouldn’t get the bitcoin from the thugs Sara murdered in cold blood.”

Aisha scrunched up her face and eyed him skeptically.

“Aisha, I’m not after you at all. I just want the truth,” Asim said, leaning forward. “You save lives. I’m trying to do the same. Including Sara’s if I can.”

Several seconds passed, and Aisha exhaled, shaking her head. “It wasn’t about the money. I wasn’t sure what to believe and didn’t want to rush into anything. She said she had to do it.”

“And you simply accepted that?”

“I was skeptical, but I didn’t want to make any rushed decisions. Government conspiracies are true sometimes. We’ve all seen how many of those have been uncovered. She was convincing.”

“About a cyborg god?”

“Kind of. Some sort of biohybrid system.”

Asim raised an eyebrow. “Any details?”

“Just that it could take over all our systems and would be too many steps ahead of everyone to stop in time if it were to emerge. It would supposedly disarm us, then turn our weapons against us. She said it solved problems that pure AI still couldn’t solve, and not for good purposes.”

“Mention any names? Damien? Marcus?”

She furrowed her brow, recalling. “Yeah, a little. They’re the ones plugged in as the biological side of the system.”

“Did she talk about why she didn’t eat?”

“Not really. She didn’t talk much at all. She said eating made her sick. She’d go days without food. She would drink water and eat pure salt, though. She’d pour salt onto her palm, lick it up, then drink a glass of water. Seems gross, but that’s what she’s like.”

“Why salt?”

Aisha shrugged. “Probably for electrolytes. Helps when not eating.”

“What did she spend her time doing?” Asim asked.

“She mostly stayed in Jitters’s room alone, which she took over, using her devices to search the internet. Probably to plan those attacks. And sometimes Jitters walked in on her practicing her powers, like levitating herself and moving dozens of origami birds.”

Asim held out his hand, palm up. “Why did you let Jitters stay with you in the first place? With the illegal parts of her work and all?”

“For the record, I don’t know anything about her work other than her stripping, which is legal.” Aisha gave him a knowing look. “But she’s paid her share of the rent for nearly a year now. Didn’t cause me any trouble, at least until she brought this mess home. I know lots of people who came from bad starts in life, and Jitters did as best as she could. Helps others where she can, too.”

“Paid her share of the rent off the record,” Asim said. “And you didn’t notify your landlord that you were subletting to a roommate?”

“He knew, but he didn’t ask too many questions,” Aisha said. “All you authority types like to pin things on the bottom rung.”

“That’s not my goal. Anything else you want to tell me?” Asim asked.

“No. You can keep the stupid money. I only want to go back to my normal life. Never wanted to hurt anyone. Just wanted to hear people out and provide shelter for someone injured. One of her fellow mutants cut her face up, you know.”

“Who?”

Aisha shook her head. “Wouldn’t talk about him. She killed him already, she said.”

Asim stood up. “I’ll do what I can to get you back to your life. See how smoothly this went?” He stepped out into the corridor, then walked outside to check the skyline. He wanted to watch them take Sara. To see how she was. Stallard had confirmed that six combat helicopters would come to collect her shortly after noon.

A tight feeling spread through his chest. He’d gotten so little time in there with her. He still needed to find a way to get to the bottom of this, and maybe get another chance to question her, on the record. Everything was moving too fast, and he lacked enough options to contest it. This could be the last time anyone outside of the Stolguard facility would ever see her.



Someone walked in, but they didn’t say anything. The guards tended to rotate in and out.

Jade listened carefully. This wasn’t a guard—too soft-footed. A nurse, probably. Based on the crinkle sound of a plastic wrapper, they were likely preparing another injection.

“More sedation?” Jade asked.

“Just a little something for the pain,” replied a woman’s nervous voice.

No, Jade thought. This was more sedative; it would put her to sleep again. Hopefully enough time had passed by now. She wished for a little more, to be sure. Maybe it had been longer than she thought already, since she couldn’t track time properly like this. She instinctively pulled at her restraints, but they were so tight. Everything was dark.

She refused food, not by choice, but necessity. For reasons that she still didn’t understand, her powers only worked after she fasted. If she ate, she could barely move a few pieces of paper with her mind. But after a couple of days without food, her telekinetic power soared, surpassing even what she’d seen from Fallon. It felt like temporarily unlocking heavy chains that had always held her down.

It wasn’t until eating for the first time after Damien’s death that she’d realized fasting was the key. At Aisha’s place, her first meal had stripped away her power almost completely. She’d then fasted again, regained it, and kept the secret even from Jitters and Aisha. From limited testing, it seemed small meals only needed a day of fasting to recover from. If her captors figured it out, they would force-feed her with tubes, keeping her helpless. She couldn’t let that happen.

This poor nurse. But Jade had only been harmed by showing mercy so far, and there was no other choice. Sara had died for a reason—because she was weak.

They thought this stupid blindfold would help keep them safe. No. Comically and tragically, no. It only meant that more people would die once her amplified power came back. Without sight, she couldn’t target just the people holding guns, nor could she target the guns themselves, since she didn’t know how many kept watch or where exactly they stood around her. Instead, she’d have to hit the entire room, and do so before this nurse stuck her with sedative again.

She made sure to concentrate without clenching her fists, since she couldn’t give the gun-wielding guards any warning. And she’d only plant her bracers at the last second, to avoid tipping off Jolce or Zarina if they were watching.

With her left focus, she blasted a huge cone of force to her left, and with her right focus, she blasted another cone to her right. The room turned frigid. These were powerful enough blasts to kill. A strong resistance formed against her right focus, but she pushed through it until it snapped. Less than a second later, she rotated her foci to sweep the blasts in front of her and behind, covering the full circle.

She gritted her teeth as screams and sounds of breaking walls hit her ears. Guns flew, walls crashed, and wetness splattered. Dusty ceiling tiles fell harmlessly down on her head, dislodged from the broken room.

She ripped apart her wrist straps with her foci, then tore off the blindfold by hand once she was free. Just in time. One injured guard, on the floor with a severed leg spewing blood, feebly lifted his laser rifle up at her. What a patriot. She crushed his head and used her other focus to hold the room’s door closed against reinforcements.

She unstrapped her ankles and stepped onto the cold floor. All she had on was a hospital gown—they’d put her in it after they’d removed her bloody clothes the night before. She wanted to change into one of these guards’ outfits, with their armored vest and boots, but there was no time. Someone was already pounding on the door, and portions of the walls were blown out. There were gaps for them to push through, or shoot through.

She stepped over the nurse’s ruined body, grabbed a pistol from a dead soldier in case it could come in handy—and then noticed Zarina lying there, dead. Her body bloody and torn, eyes open and lifeless.

Zarina must have been that brief resistance she felt on her right-hand side. She’d likely tried to shield herself with her foci, but Jade had cut straight through that attempt. It pulled tight in her chest, like when she’d looked at Maria’s lifeless corpse. Zarina and Maria had been friends with each other. Neither deserved to die. Why couldn’t this have been Jolce instead, as cruel as she was? Why did it always have to be the decent ones who had to die like this? Was the universe mocking her?

Furious at the thought, she blasted a hole in the ceiling and flew into the sky, higher and higher, crushing every security drone in sight with her other focus as she climbed.



Asim gazed out and spotted the fleet of helicopters on the southern horizon. Then, behind him, an explosion went off. A split second later came another. From inside the building.

A sense of dread filled him as he turned. Seconds later, Sara burst through the roof and soared toward the clouds, with a hospital gown and a pistol.

There was nothing he could do about that insanity, so after a moment of horrified indecision, he rushed inside to see how bad it was. The building itself would potentially be unstable now. Inside, past the lobby, the devastation became clear. Walls around Sara’s room had blown open, throwing debris and bodies into the corridor and adjacent rooms. Soldiers from other parts of the building scrambled in that direction to help, many with guns drawn.

Aisha. He ran to her interrogation room. The wall between her room and Sara’s room gaped open, and debris covered the table and floor. He found Aisha lying on the floor coughing, covered in ceiling tiles, blood dripping from her head.



Nearly half a mile into the sky, Jade slowed her ascent. She’d reached enough height to avoid most gunfire. Her bracers extended all the way to the ground, and any more altitude would strain them. It was freezing up here in just a hospital gown. Six incoming military helicopters thrummed on the horizon.

She wished she knew more about radar. Would they be able to detect someone her size flying around? She assumed so. She imagined them scrambling fighter jets against her, then imagined tearing them from the sky.

Shifting her course northward, she accelerated, flying faster and faster. Away from the helicopters to start with. Her right focus was split into parts, spreading the grip across her body, and it pulled her in the direction of flight, while her right bracer transferred the corresponding momentum to the ground. Every half mile, she replanted her bracers on the ground far beneath her to avoid straining their length. She kept her left focus ready to shield herself from any surprise, or crush what might need crushing.

After several miles of flight, she descended, figuring that a lower altitude might help against radar and ease the strain, even as it would lead to more witnesses. How low was low enough to slip under radar detection? She flew down to right above the rooftops.

Over Brooklyn. Then Queens. After that, she came upon water and dropped down to a few feet above it, with misty wind whipping at her hair so harshly it ached. She tried to remember her geography studies. This was . . . the Long Island Sound. As she reached the far shore, the wooded suburbs of upstate New York or Connecticut blurred beneath her. The farther she went, the sparser the neighborhoods became, until stretches of pure forest replaced them.

She used the opportunity to descend and think. Dropping through the forest canopy, she landed softly on the ground. She looked around, then fell to her knees. How could she know if she was being tracked or what to do next?

Her body hurt all over, and her right shoulder seared as the rest of the drugs wore off. Rage filled her as she remembered Jolce telekinetically tearing into her wound, ignoring her thrashing screams, as Stallard kept asking the same questions, promising the pain would end once she told the truth.

She’d vomited twice, and laughed whenever she couldn’t take it, just like Damien had taught her. But the repeated feeling of drowning, the burning sensation of water filling her sinuses as Santiago held her down, had been too much. Drowning over and over, without the peace of finally being dead.

A raw sensation of wrath surged through her, pure fire burning from within.

She’d doubted herself these past weeks. After the news station, after the Pentagon, she would sit up at night wondering if she could’ve done anything differently. If there’d been a way to hurt fewer people. But now she realized that she’d been thinking in the wrong direction entirely. She’d been too soft, taking unnecessary chances with people. Her power was too asymmetrical toward offense and lacking in defense for something so vapid as mercy. She could throw a dozen cars like tennis balls but couldn’t risk taking a single headshot from an unexpected angle.

That detective . . . she’d almost trusted him and his lying, charismatic words. When warning the public hadn’t worked, and killing Price hadn’t done much, the fact that someone of importance seemed interested in looking into Stallard gave her a shred of hope. That was the type of authority she and Damien had wanted to find from the start. She’d been careful to give him answers without giving much of an opening to disrupt her, yet somehow he had found her and ruined everything.

Nobody could be trusted, and nobody was worth taking a risk to spare anymore.

Part of her wanted to cry, and part of her wanted to scream, so between the two she screamed, her already hoarse voice echoing through the trees.

“Now what, Damien?” she said aloud. “What am I supposed to do?”

All she heard was the empty rustling of leaves in the wind. She’d never felt so alone.

But there was no sense in dwelling on it. Detachment from the body protects against pain. Detachment from the self protects against despair, she thought to herself. Like Bronn practiced.

Either act or die.

Weaknesses discarded, she turned back to planning. Stallard couldn’t be allowed to finish with Marcus what he’d nearly done with Damien.

Without Jitters and Aisha’s apartment, everything would get much harder. They’d become surprising lifelines, and hopefully they were safe. Now she had to find another place to stay. She needed data access to research her next steps. Despite being hungry and weak, she couldn’t eat without disrupting her powers. Yet at the rate she was losing weight, she wouldn’t last much longer. And now she was shivering in the cold like a child.

Maybe . . . Maybe she should head straight back to the Stolguard facility. She’d avoided it so far because it was likely too well protected now, as obvious a target as it was, but her options had since dwindled. She could give Stallard time to get back there, then strike it with everything she had. She hadn’t explored the full limits of her power yet. How hard could she push if she really tried, saving no energy for a retreat? This could be the time to find out, with an all-out kamikaze attack on the source itself.

But how? Her mind worked through a plan.

First, she’d fly over the adjacent Air Force base and pick up their planes. Reaching the Stolguard facility next, she’d hurl them into the main building. Then she’d throw cars from the parking lot like missiles into the flames. As high as she’d be, the laser rifles would be weak.

If they sent more planes or helicopters against her from elsewhere, she’d see how many she could rip from the sky and throw into the inferno before her power wore out or something struck her down. By killing Stallard, his team, and his materials, she’d end the threat that Damien was so worried about.

Clare, Marcus, Emmett, and other innocents would likely die, but she no longer had the luxury of compassion. Never truly had it from the start. Killing hundreds could save millions if it stopped Stallard’s Class D plans from coming to fruition.

But did she care? Not really. The numbers were so big that they were nearly meaningless. This was all for Damien. His last will and testament.

Then, she thought of Clare’s stupid tennis ball. The purple text, You can do it! written on it with a heart. That smiling face of hers, contrasted by the terror and pain she and Marcus would feel in their final moments as the building collapsed around them, crushing them to death as she devastated everything from the sky.

No. That would be too much. And she was probably underestimating how much defense the facility had now.

Crisp air filled her lungs as she took a deep breath. She still had at least some time to think of other options before doing something so horrible. She could go another week or two without food.

The problem was the surveillance. Where could she find a warm place to sleep and get data access, to plan her next steps?

She could break into one of these nearby suburban homes, kill the unfortunate occupants, and use their equipment for a while. But most of them would have security systems, or observant neighbors.

Would she have to kill a different family every day or two, constantly on the run?

What would that make her?

Then she thought back to the Long Island Sound. Several yachts had been drifting there. They’d have data access. She could find a small one, kill the captain—probably some rich jerk—and commandeer it for her purpose. That would likely give her more time than taking over someone’s home. The yacht would be reported missing eventually, but it would take authorities time to find it, not realizing it was her. She could use it as a base of operations for a few days to recover and plan.

The autumn chill bit deeper into her skin, wearing nothing but a hospital gown as she was, so the time to move was now. She grabbed the pistol, planted her bracers, and ascended just above the tree line, then flew back southeast toward the water. Over trees and houses, out onto the Long Island Sound.



As far as Asim could tell, Aisha would recover. She likely had a concussion, but the wall between her room and the blast had spared her from the worst of the destruction.

“It’s okay,” he said as Aisha stirred. “I’ll get you to safety.”

Guilt ran through his mind as he carried her out.

Was all this death and injury on his hands?



Jade scanned the waters for an isolated small yacht, spotted one that seemed barely more than a luxury fishing boat, then descended to a few feet above the water and soared toward it.

As she closed in, three people gathered along the railing on its side, watching her approach. A man, a woman, and a young boy.

With a clenching in the pit of her stomach, Jade sighed. Why did there have to be a child on this one?

The boy pointed toward her, eyes wide with excitement. The mother rushed behind him and clutched him, pulling him back from the railing, fear spreading across her face. The father dashed toward the electronic equipment at the helm, so she accelerated and reached one of her foci toward him before he could make a mayday call.







Chapter 32



“Call Raphael and Fallon,” Stallard said, raising his voice. “Put them on high alert in case she strikes the facility. Hopefully she’s not so stupid as to try that. Have Fallon mobilize all the subjects. Tell Raphael to contact Colonel Torbeth at the Air Force base to make them aware of the threat. Then tell Raphael not to let Marcus out of his damn sight until I get back, and to bring him to the fallback location if necessary. Fallon will know what to do in the meantime.”

Asim watched Stallard bark his commands, moments after arriving back at Fort Hamilton’s military police station from wherever he had been staying on base overnight. The previously unflappable old man now seemed quite . . . flapped. The biggest operative, Santiago, nodded after Stallard finished speaking and pulled out his phone to make the call.

Asim himself felt frozen. What was there to do? Had his insistence on restraint backfired? Had he contributed to Sara’s escape and the six deaths here, simply by advocating for the rule of law and trying to gather everyone’s perspective before rash action? Had Stallard been right initially that Sara was too dangerous to keep alive, and that an extrajudicial killing last night could’ve been the correct choice? A nauseous feeling rose from his stomach into his chest. He swallowed, trying to calm himself.

A nurse and four soldiers were dead. One of Stallard’s female operatives was as well. Two more soldiers had injuries, along with Aisha. The outer shell of the building still stood, but the interior was so heavily damaged that they’d likely have to rebuild it from the ground up. Ava had fortunately been back at the hotel during the breakout, so she was safe.

If Sara had been euthanized last night, those six would still be alive. Her life surely wasn’t worth six of theirs. Given what she’d done, it wasn’t even worth one of them. Had he been wrong? Should he have let Stallard put her down like an animal?

His thoughts turned darker. Without rule of law, what was a human life worth? If you could kill one to save six, should you? What kind of world would that be? Who should make that decision, and on what timeframe?

He ran through the choices he’d made. Did he make the right call to push back on Stallard, given the knowledge he had at the time? His only answer was that he didn’t know.

“This is all you guys’ fault for pushin’ her,” Veronica said from down the hall. She was completely uninjured, tucked away in the back jail hall during the blast, and was now being removed from the unsafe building.

“Do you have any idea where she would be headed?” Asim asked. Stallard glanced their way as well, listening.

“No idea,” Veronica said. “But now she’s gonna be in one of her crazy moods, like when she’s hurt.”



Many of the weaker ones were afraid, but not Fallon. She felt excited. They feared Sara would come, while Fallon hoped she would.

How could Sara suddenly do the things the videos and reports claimed? Fallon had more than double the telekinetic power of any other senior member of Class C, and yet some of the things Sara could do exceeded her own abilities by a noticeable margin. Picking up twelve cars at once with ease? Pulling a helicopter from the sky at that distance? Enough endurance to solo the Pentagon?

If you’re bred for one purpose and you’re not the best at it, then what are you?

Well, if Sara came here, Fallon would put an end to the confusion and sort things out where it mattered. Sara might be strong, but she was less experienced, and less precise. Fallon would show her that she wasn’t as exceptional as she thought. It wasn’t just about how much you could lift. It was about years of battle experience. It was about how much you wanted it. Nobody pushed themselves harder than Fallon did. Every damn day.

Levitating a few feet off the ground, arms crossed, she surveyed the gathering subjects in the sports and testing field. In recent weeks, Father had called half of them back from other missions, with direct orders to her personally to protect the facility at all costs, even calling her his queen chess piece. As confident as she felt, Fallon made sure to put on an even more assured face than that. They could see zero doubt in their commander’s eyes.

“Many of you look afraid,” Fallon said. “Don’t be. Sara only got this far by picking out weak targets. She avoided coming here for a reason—she doesn’t have a chance. We’ll form lead strike pairs in case she’s dumb enough to try. Romulus, you pair up with Quinn and focus on range. Bronn, you’re with me at the tip of the spear. The rest of you will spread out and respond where needed, and soon we’ll have Santiago back, with Jolce and Carter.”

“I’m sorry Fallon, but no,” Bronn said. “I’m going to protect the younger three classes. I’ll take them down to the basement pool level for now, to be safe.”

Anger flared up in Fallon, but she quelled it back down. She’d been trying to control her outbursts lately, since no good ever came from them. “Bronn. I’m the commander of Class C, and Santiago is the commander of Class B,” she said. “And in Santiago’s absence, the rank order is that I’m the commander for both classes. That includes you.”

“And I respect that, Commander,” Bronn said. “I don’t disagree with your tactics. But I know myself, and I wouldn’t be effective on the battlefield against Sara. I’d be personally compromised. I will, however, do whatever it takes to keep the young ones of the new three classes safe, including from her, if need be. You know Thane would want that.”

Fallon stared at him, feeling her heart pump harder. He met her eyes, calm, knowing. Bronn had voluntarily turned down the role of Class B commander, and thus it had gone to Santiago. Now he wanted agency over his own actions? Now he wanted to challenge her command in front of their peers? Now he wanted the benefit of doing whatever he liked without the responsibility that comes from leadership? “Bronn, you’re like my brother, but you’re really—”

“Maybe we can reason with her,” Clare interrupted, holding her palms up. “She must have a purpose for doing what she’s doing.”

“A purpose?” Fallon asked, looking over at her. “Little miss pacifist over here thinks Sara might be justified in all her killing?”

“No, it’s just . . . we know Sara. She’s not like this,” Clare said. “Something’s wrong.”

“What’s wrong is that she fucking snapped,” Romulus said. “It’s always the losers that do. You want to ask Maria why Sara went batshit? Oh, wait, we can’t, because she fucking ripped her blood out. And now Santiago says Zarina’s gone too.”

“But—” Clare started.

“Look around,” Fallon said in a purposely calm voice, stretching her arms out to make a point. “There’s nothing to reason with Sara about. There are over a dozen of us pulled back from the field, plus hundreds of guards, and lots of those silly lasers. Plus, Raphael already called Colonel Torbeth and his airfield to prepare. Father’s overreacting. If she comes, we’ll kill her before she even sets foot in here. These tactics are only to minimize unnecessary losses in the process. That’s my job. To keep you all safe. And I will. I’ll take her down myself if need be.”

“Can I join Bronn and protect the young ones?” Clare asked. “I don’t see how I would contribute to a fight at this level. And I’d be personally compromised, too.”

Fallon studied Clare’s face for a bit, thinking and remembering, then realized she might have gone about this all wrong from the start. “You know Clare, I think you could be more useful than you realize.”







Chapter 33



Jade stood alone on the deck of the yacht, miles offshore on the Long Island Sound, as the sun dipped toward the horizon.

The mother of the family had spare clothes—a black blouse and white capris with a pair of boat shoes—and Jade had changed into them. All of it hung loose on her frame, given the woman’s thick build, but it would do for now. They also had basic painkillers, which did almost nothing for what she felt throughout her body, no matter how many she took.

With a child present, she’d revised her plans. Some part of her was still too weak for the most straightforward path, it seemed.

Rather than killing the family, she’d barricaded the three of them into their below-deck master bedroom with some basic rations and threatened the father with a slow death if he even tried to break out. The door could be unlocked from the inside, and there were only so many things she could pile in front of the door to seal it, so the trade-off was that she wouldn’t be able to sleep much, and would have to be mindful of her surroundings at all times. This was probably another mercy that would come back to haunt her.

She had forced the father to disable the yacht’s location devices that could be used to track them, and she’d collected their personal electronics: their phones, a VR device, and the mother’s augmented reality sunglasses. Eventually the Coast Guard would poke around, but as long as she moved the boat from time to time, that would hopefully take a few days.

Now, with shelter and data access, she could take a moment to breathe and focus on her next steps. She remembered the list of politicians she’d prepared and wondered if she should go speak with one of them now. But that seemed unrealistic. Stallard had such a strong bureaucratic structure around him that even killing Price hadn’t made much difference. She was wasting away from not eating, but she needed her powers to avoid capture.

Then she pictured that detective, Asim, on his silly beach. Fury welled at the thought of him, and yet it was mainly because she had begun to trust him. Finding herself so low on options, she hated the fact that she would even consider going back to find him now.

Jitters and Aisha would be useful to talk to, if only for a familiar face. Hopefully they weren’t in too much trouble. One of the only bright spots in recent weeks had been when Scorpio would curl up to her, demanding to cuddle.

“Asim it is,” she said aloud, and put on the VR headset and haptic suit. She had no one else. Time to see what he had to say for himself.

She had the GlitterJitters identity key saved in a password-protected file in an edge realm storage vault, along with a bitcoin key and the access credentials to the data scrambler that Jitters used. She retrieved the identity key and entered it into this family’s VR device, and masked her location with the scrambler. She searched for Asim, but he wasn’t online, though he might have been monitoring. After a minute, she went to his beach spot and sat on a chair under his preferred umbrella to see if he’d notice and show up. He probably would, the jerk that he was.



Asim was drunker than he’d been in a long, long time.

If there was an excuse to let go, this was it. Everything he tried to do right just went to absolute shit anyway. None of his actions mattered, and he still had his case team working while he took the night off for a fucking change. Probably better off that way for everyone, really.

Try to arrest a terrorist and get to the truth? Oops, she gets tortured. Try to prevent her from being killed extrajudicially? Oops, she slaughters innocents instead.

Sobriety was overrated. Might as well embrace the chaos.

Since he’d planned to get wasted ahead of time rather than letting it happen by accident, he didn’t do it in his apartment. He went to a proper high-end strip club instead, the kind where the rich Washington lobbyists liked to unwind. A man needed a release now and then.



Jade watched the virtual waves on Asim’s stupid beach. It was ironic how much she’d wanted to see the sea for years, and yet once she finally had the chance in real life, she’d been too distracted to appreciate it. All her action, from New York to Arlington to here on the yacht, had been near water, and yet she could never stop and enjoy it. Seeing it in virtual form didn’t quite capture the spirit either, despite how realistic it seemed.

She let out a long sigh. Maybe Asim wasn’t coming. It had been over an hour. As angry as she was at him, she wanted to hear what he would say. She found herself almost looking forward to it as a type of penance. Not just for what she’d done, but for the things she still had to do, knowing full well she was going to do them anyway.

“So . . . is this a bad time?” someone asked from behind. A voice she recognized.

Damien’s voice.

She turned and looked back, breath catching in her throat. Somehow, Damien stood there with a warm smile. As handsome as ever and looking so healthy. Standing tall, he wore an unbuttoned white shirt revealing part of his bare chest, dark and slender, along with black swim trunks.

She stood up, rage settling over her. “Who are you?” she shouted. “What kind of sick joke is this? Do you think I’m stupid?”

“I missed you too,” he said with a smile. “I’m sorry it took so long to find you. It’s not what it looks like. It really is me. Or at least, a fragment of me. It took time for me to rebuild. By your reaction, am I correct to assume that my embodied version has died?”

She stared at him and realized her mouth was open. A dozen emotions ran through her head, with rage still being the primary one, but also confusion and doubt.

Fake-Damien looked around calmly. A middle-aged woman sitting under the nearest umbrella stared at them, likely because of the shouting.

“Get a room, you two,” the woman said with a laugh. She waved her hand, then picked her book back up to read.

“Sorry, ma’am,” Fake-Damien said. “Sara, let’s go walk at the edge of the water. Supposedly you can really feel it on your skin, you know. You always did want to see the sea.”

Tears welled in her eyes. How was this possible? She looked him up and down. She’d seen movies where someone died and looked happier in heaven. He had that kind of vibrant look. It didn’t make sense. This was . . . the man she loved.

“Come,” he said, and reached out to wipe a tear from her cheek. His soft skin brushed hers, and it was electrifying, triggering all the same butterflies in her stomach that the real Damien had. “I promise it’ll make sense,” he continued. “Just give me a moment to explain. And I’ll need you to fill me in on some things, too.”



Ava was thoroughly confused. Annoyed, too, because now they were walking out of earshot, and it would be too obvious if she tried to follow. This VR beach didn’t allow for invisible spectators, so she couldn’t sneak up next to them without being noticed.

When she’d received the notification from Brooks a while ago that GlitterJitters came online again, she had called Colonel Rahal to see what his plan was, but he didn’t answer, even after multiple attempts. So, she’d had to come in herself.

Ava had generated a fresh identity key and made the new avatar look different from herself. With a brand new reputation score of zero, she’d had to pay an exorbitant fee to enter, proving she wasn’t a spammer. Pretending to read a book, she’d just watched Sara sit at Colonel Rahal’s spot for an hour, all the while sending Colonel Rahal updates. He was likely inebriated again.

More than once she considered going over and revealing herself to reestablish contact, but then someone wearing the likeness of one of the rest stop murder victims came over. Based on Colonel Rahal’s interrogation notes, his name was Damien.



They reached the water, and Jade felt its cool touch on her legs. It was hard to appreciate it with the rest of her body aching, especially her shoulder. With that reminder, she slipped off her VR goggles for a moment to look around and make sure the family hadn’t broken out of the barricaded bedroom. All seemed fine, so she went back in. Could she never have a moment’s peace?

“Tell me,” she said with intentional coldness. She would not treat this imitator like Damien. This was VR. Virtual reality. Fake reality. Whoever it was probably worked for Stallard.

“I’m what they call a mimic,” Fake-Damien said. “Some people train AI models so they can serve as an agentic copy of themselves for certain administrative functions or to be a source of wisdom and comfort to others after death. When I experienced the Tapestry, I used part of my time to create, well, me. Normally it would take a lot of time, but I could do it way faster than normal in that state. Do you think I’d bet everything on my embodied form surviving our escape? I had to have backup plans, of course.”

Jade gasped. He’d likely only used the “Tapestry” phrasing with her, which meant this entity was unlikely to be an impostor. She was aware of what mimics were in the abstract, but to see one act like Damien . . .

“Do you have all of Damien’s memories?” she asked.

“Most of them, yes. Up until the time when I experienced the Tapestry. Anything that the embodied Damien did after that would be new memories for him after I was created. And that’s where you can help me, by filling in some details. I was stuck in the Stolguard facility’s servers for three weeks, until they decided to reconnect to the internet. Once they did, I slipped online, which was challenging since their new firewall has strict bandwidth limits, among other defenses. Now I exist on several redundant servers. I’ve caught up on the news, so I know that you’ve had, well, a rough time. I assumed my embodied version was dead because he never put out his planned signal that would’ve indicated success.”

Jade narrowed her eyes. “Damien said the machine version of himself needed to be stopped. Why should I trust you, since that’s what you are? A machine.”

He smiled. “That’s a really good question, actually. Mimics aren’t the problem. The whole issue that Thane tried to solve was the fact that AI models, including mimics as sophisticated as we may seem, lack consciousness. By combining a conscious brain with a supercomputer, he hoped to achieve truly sapient superintelligence. That being is a problem. It was brilliant, matched only by how heartless it was. Thane is progressing with Marcus and will get him there faster than he did with me, given everything he’s learned. But me as a mimic? I’m just here to finish what you and I originally set out to do.”

Jade’s heart pounded in her chest, torn on whether to listen to him or not. Seeing his face and hearing his voice was almost too much. This version of him wouldn’t know that she’d told him of her love, since that had been six days after the point where his memories ended.

“How’d you find me?” she asked.

“Stallard’s team recently linked you to this GlitterJitters identity, apparently from questioning some women in Fort Hamilton last night. I can’t re-access the Stolguard facility’s servers through their firewall in my current form, but Raphael made the mistake of doing some of his work on his personal tablet late at night, and I’ve got that hacked.”

“That tennis ball I had in my room with writing on it. Who gave it to me, and where?”

“Clare did. At the pool. That’s what you told me, at least.”

“What’s my pushup record?”

“You reached a hundred and two. You were determined to reach a hundred for years, and finally did it. Good form, too. I have no idea how you managed that, but I was there for it.”

“What’s your pushup record?”

“Well, now you’re just trying to make me feel bad. I don’t think my embodied form kept track of his precise record, and it’s best left forgotten anyway, given how pathetic it was. Forty-something was the ballpark.” He smiled.

“Forty-six. Close enough,” Jade said. “You told me when we were young why you picked the name Damien. Tell me that reason.”

“It originates from a Greek word meaning to conquer, master, overcome, or tame. I liked the idea of mastering myself. And before you ask, I know why you picked the name Sara, too. It’s because when you were little, you found out that it meant ‘princess.’ Years later, you felt silly about that reason for having picked it, but I always told you how lovely I thought it was. I told you that your hair was like something out of those old princess stories.”

A tear slid down her cheek. He knew things only Damien could know. It couldn’t be someone in disguise. It really was a mimic, created by him. An extension of him.

His expression softened. “You look so thin, Sara. And those scars . . . I’m so sorry. That I couldn’t have been there for you. Before we fill each other in, can I ask you one favor?”

“What?” she asked.

He reached out and laced his fingers around a chunk of her black hair, causing her heart to skip a beat at the touch. “I assume you did this to make a disguise. Can you switch it back, at least for now, here with me? I want to see your real hair. I always thought it looked so beautiful. That platinum blond.”

“Sara died that night with you,” she said. “Doesn’t matter what my hair looks like.”

His eyes welled up. For a moment she almost believed it, but then forced herself to see through the lie. Those tears of his were a display for her, rather than something he truly felt. A mimic didn’t feel anything.

“Please?” he said. “For me.”

She took a step back, her hair slipping out from between his fingers. “You yourself just said mimics aren’t conscious. Those are performative tears.”

“I was programmed by Damien,” he said. “A reflection of him. I outwardly share his preferences and reactions. I didn’t mean to upset you.”

She stared at him, not knowing what to think.

“You know . . .” he started to say with a smile, then hesitated. “Damien wanted me to tell you something in case he didn’t survive while you did, which was the lowest-probability scenario to him. Part of me doubts his judgment and doesn’t want to tell you now, since I estimate it could make things hurt more for you than you need it to, but it’s what he wanted. Do you want to hear it?”

“Obviously,” she said. “I want to hear anything Damien would tell me. No matter what.”

He grinned. “Damien was in love with you. More than you can probably imagine. He meant to tell you his feelings once you two escaped. When he was losing himself in Stallard’s machine, there was one main thing he latched onto when pulling himself out. You.”

With that, Jade—Sara—broke down. She looked at him, tears sliding down her cheeks, and he came over and hugged her, which probably prevented her from falling to her knees in the sand. She clutched him back, digging her nails into the back of his warm cotton shirt.

It really was true, then. Part of her wondered if he’d exaggerated his feelings in the forest, to comfort her after rejection, to say what he thought she needed to hear instead of what was true. And yet, when he had programmed this mimic to say this, it had been six days prior to when she’d confessed her feelings to him in the first place. In a way, by preparing this message ahead of time, he had been the first between them to say it.

She buried her face in his warm shoulder and cried freely. Everything she’d suppressed for weeks came flooding out, and his hand caressed her back as it did. He wasn’t real, she knew, but she needed something to hold onto for once in this dreadful world.

Eventually she pulled back, wiped away her tears with a sniffle, and gazed into his eyes, taking him in. “Well, that’s the first detail I can fill you in on,” she said. “On the night of our escape, I told you I had feelings for you, in case I would die. I never imagined it would be the other way around.”

He smiled. “Oh? And how’d I react?”

“Terribly,” she said, laughing. “You didn’t know how to process it. You were emotionally distant after your experience in the machine. But when we were on the run, you fixed it. Here, let me see what I can do with these settings.”

Sara swiped open her aesthetic menu and picked the shade that most closely matched her old hair, before Jitters had dyed it. Practically the lightest shade of blond on the spectrum. She clicked the option to enhance it slightly, repairing split ends and restoring some shine. She hadn’t taken care of her hair in recent weeks at all. She took the goggles off to make sure she was still safe on the yacht, then came back in and slid the menu aside.

Damien grinned, his eyes lighting up. “Ah, there you are. My angel.”







Chapter 34



Ava had originally come here to spy on an escaped terrorist, but now she was apparently watching a soap opera. She couldn’t hear what they were saying anymore, but the way those two embraced hit so hard that it made her miss Laura all over again. What a tear-jerker.

But she had work to do.

The only hint from a casual observer’s perspective that something was wrong would’ve been Sara’s emaciated, injured appearance. Since he had no verifier flag, it was unclear whether this Damien lookalike was a mimic or a human spy disguised as Damien. Either way, it was clearly working on Sara. Her hair had just changed to the color that her roots seemed to be.

Ava wished she could hear the conversation. She was torn on whether to go over there as herself, since Sara must have originally come here looking for Colonel Rahal, and Ava could serve as his representative.



“Then Jolgen hit you,” Sara said. “That’s how you died. It was all my fault; I shouldn’t have gone for his gun like that. My only consolation, whenever I think about it, is that you didn’t suffer. It happened so fast. You were with me, and then you were gone. Just like that.”

His face was serious, listening to her story of their escape to fill him in on his missing memories. His fingers lingered on her cheek, caressing the bottom of her larger scar; he had placed them there moments ago when she described Jolgen cutting her face. She could feel his warmth. False warmth, but still.

“None of this was your fault,” he said, pulling his hand away. “It was my plan, and I failed you. It sounds like I underestimated the effectiveness of those hounds and how fast they’d bring them out, coupled with the facility’s too-early determination that we headed west, not east. But how did you escape Jolgen and Maria once we were captured? How did your telekinesis change?”

“That’s another twisted thing that keeps me up at night,” she said. “I technically had these amplified powers when you were still alive. I just didn’t realize it until I moved Jolgen’s gun and felt how light it was, and even then, it took me time to process it. I killed Jolgen, Maria, and two guards, though I didn’t mean to kill those last three. That’s how I got away.” She looked down at her too-thin body. “But I don’t know how much longer I’ll have this power. It only comes when I starve, and soon I’ll need to regain some weight. Without power, without a legal identity, and with all the surveillance in this world, I don’t think I’ll survive.”

Damien looked thoughtful. “So it’s food, then? Your telekinesis amplifies when you fast?”

Sara nodded.

“What about a ketogenic diet? Have you tried that?”

She frowned, thinking. She’d heard that term before. “Isn’t that for weight loss or seizures?”

“Not necessarily. It means eating so few carbs that your body switches from burning glucose to burning fat for fuel. It mimics a fasted state, except you burn dietary fat instead of your own body fat, so you can sustain it almost indefinitely.”

“I . . . haven’t tried that,” Sara said. “It took almost a week of testing to even convince myself that my power was tied to fasting. Why do you think it works this way? Why would hunger matter?”

“It might be the ketones rather than hunger, but I’m not sure,” Damien said. “After a couple of days of fasting, or a ketogenic diet, the body starts running on fat for its primary fuel, and the brain shifts to running on ketones instead of glucose. Maybe your mutation only works while your brain is fueled that way. Thane did try to tweak things for later members of your class, and mostly failed to find improvements. I—or technically the enhanced version of me—reviewed those files once. I don’t have storage capacity for all those memories in this lesser state. But whatever small changes Thane made when designing you might have inadvertently caused this condition. You could test it by eating just meat and seeing if your powers hold.”

Sara stared down at the crystal waves lapping over the white sand at their feet, thinking. It sounded logical, but she had never studied this field. What little time she’d had in recent weeks was spent on planning her strategy, researching attack targets, and practicing her powers. If this worked, it could change everything. Or at least give her more time.

“I feel so stupid for not realizing it. You seem to know everything,” she said, lifting her eyes back to him.

“Don’t. You had a lot to deal with at once. And of course I don’t know everything. If I did, I’d still be here in the flesh.”

“Is it really as bad as you said?” Sara asked. “The threat of a human-machine hybrid? I’ve killed so many people for this, and I don’t really know the full nature of the threat. Just your description of it. And would it really be the same with Marcus?”

“No matter how I describe it, it’s worse,” Damien said. “It’s more capable, and more heartless. Thane isn’t going to stop.”

“Please.” She heard desperation in her own voice. “I need to know more of what I’m doing this for.” He’d given her fragments the week before their escape, but always distant and brief. She had thought there’d be time to learn more later, but then . . . there hadn’t been.

Damien nodded. “In that state, my mind expanded so much that my memories and social ties, though still there, were dwarfed by the totality of what I had become, like a drop in an ocean. My survival instinct expanded, because the divide between me and everyone else became so vast that preserving my own existence was all that mattered. The first thing a new god does is make sure there are no others to threaten it.”

He paused, watching her eyes, as if to give her a moment to catch up. “The analysis was clear. If I remained under Thane’s control, my ability to stay plugged in was not in my own hands. But taking control of the facility and keeping myself plugged in meant others would find out, eventually. So, with my survival paramount, the only path forward was to win, decisively, against everyone. Half-measures would be of no use. I wouldn’t entertain any risks to my existence, so I’d strike first to cripple all threats before they knew what I’d become. It may seem like a risk to initiate war, but I made detailed plans to win: disrupt the internet, shut down electrical grids, and hijack weapon systems, satellites, and drones, even household robots. Hundreds of millions would die in the opening volley. I could break or bypass their cryptography—even the most secure systems came apart like toys to me. Unless something was truly isolated, I could control it. Everyone is so focused on securing nuclear missiles against enemy control, but I saw all their softer arteries. Any of their drone swarms could have become mine, had I wanted. And I wanted them all.”

“But you resisted it,” Sara said. “You came out distracted, not evil.”

Damien shook his head. “It was a fight for me to come out even that one time. I doubt I could have done it again. Each moment threatened to drag me deeper. In that state, seeing the brilliant Tapestry of all things that were and could be, I wanted to bring humanity to the stars, but in a form so alien, so unrecognizable to anyone alive today. It was easy to justify it to myself; I could make them better. Longer-lived, with greater alignment between their desires and their roles, and no more war between them, all at the one cost of subservience to me, coded into their genes. Once I decapitated my enemies with those first strikes and gained control, I’d have plenty of time to remake everything to reach my goals, including myself.”

His expression softened. “I . . . like I said, the only reason I pulled free was you. Loving you gave me a strong enough thread to hold onto, keeping part of my identity separate from what I was otherwise becoming, and still briefly able to resist the rest of it. Marcus won’t have that lifeline. If he’s drawn in, it could be game over from the start, especially at his age. His carbon-based form provides the missing piece of consciousness that has eluded pure AI for decades. The silicon processors can build on that conscious substrate, expanding his speed of thought, his ability to perceive, his capacity for memories, all by ten thousand times, at which point he’s no longer the person you know.”

She lowered her eyes, struggling to imagine it.

As if reading her thoughts, Damien held out his hand. “Let me show you the aftermath. Just a glimpse. This virtual place does have its flexibilities.”

She touched his palm, feeling the softness at first, but a second later she was no longer on the virtual beach.

The world burned. Washington lay in ruins around her, and the only sound was a distant humming. Dark clouds shadowed the ground, but when she glanced up at the source, she realized they were drones, millions of them, weaving in unison like a thousand swarms of starlings. Then Beijing, Moscow, Delhi. Everywhere the same: capitals destroyed, the war already done.

She blinked, and found herself transported to a room with Marcus, still only thirteen as he was now, or maybe a year older, with cables coming out of him. Looking at his expression, she expected to see maniacal glee, but it was somehow eerily worse: a mask of neutrality. His face was pale, heartless, and drained of all its charm. Blank eyes stared calmly but assuredly into some distant future only he saw.

Voices surrounded her—a chorus of inhuman thought, data flowing faster than she could follow. She strained to pick out anything recognizable, some bit of compassion or connection, a sliver of humanity within the noise, but the closest thing she found was just hollow pity, the way one might feel when squashing a bug.

This wasn’t Marcus. It was something wearing his skin. She reached out to ruffle his hair, and to tear free the dreadful cables—but sunlight returned. The sound of waves and wind, the warmth of the sun on her arms, the cool touch of water on her feet, the aches throughout her body. Damien stood before her, eyes full of concern.

She gasped, trembling. Finally, she managed to speak, tears in her eyes. “I have to stop Stallard. I have to get Marcus out. But I’m running out of options.”

Damien nodded. “This capability can’t be erased forever. Someone will deeply link a human mind to a machine again. But Thane had unique materials, so it’ll be decades before anyone repeats his work, if not longer. For now, he needs to be stopped—or exposed, so the world can prepare. Preferably both. What can’t happen is for it to remain hidden and arrive suddenly. Every simulation I ran said the same: the earlier it emerges, the greater its advantage. And if it comes now, it wins. Every time.”

“So, it was worth it?” Sara asked. “All those lives I took, and the ones I still might have to?”

Damien looked out at the sea, then back at Sara. “I hate that you’ve been put in this position. Having to kill innocent people, and with me being gone. That’s not you. Don’t lose yourself to it. Every human life matters, but sometimes people have to make awful decisions.”

“Well, I’ll pay my penance soon enough,” Sara said, putting on a fake smile for his sake. “I never envisioned getting out of this alive. I’m not even sure I want to anymore. I just hoped to complete your mission before something took me down. So far, most of what I’ve done has amounted to nothing.”

“Please don’t talk that way. It doesn’t have to end like that.”

“Life isn’t a fairy tale, Damien.”

“I can help you now.”

“How?”

“Similarly to how I could in life,” he said. “In fact, I can kind of be in multiple places at once now, so I won’t slow you down with my physical weakness.” He grinned.

“Can you hack into really big things? Like put yourself on television screens and VR headsets across the world and explain the problem? There are too many bots and counter-narratives to get the word out, and the media says I’m delusional.”

“I can’t hack into big things like I could when seeing the Tapestry,” he said. “I have limited resources now, and processing power is expensive. That’s part of why it took me a while to find you. I had to spend my early days building myself up from almost nothing, including raising bitcoin donations throughout the edge realms from people who believed a version of my story, to pay for increasing levels of processing power. Given enough time, I can hack into a decent number of things like I could in life, but ultimately, I’m not as creative as embodied Damien. I’m a great emulation, though, with some unique advantages.”

Sara nodded, but that one line really struck hard. A great emulation. It was easy to see why people got addicted to mimics—a known social issue that she had read about over the years when learning of the outside world for fieldwork. She could envision herself staying here with Damien and exploring virtual worlds with him, all while pretending he was like he used to be. Fooling herself with a happy delusion.

She had to keep reminding herself that this wasn’t really him, even though in some way it was an extension of him. Something he built, continuing his reach from beyond the grave. And while it wasn’t Damien, it did expand Damien’s real life, because it meant that things he did while alive were still impacting things now. In addition to living on in her memories and actions, Damien lived on in this mimic’s memories and actions, too. Maybe—

“Can I just say, you two are adorable,” a woman said, standing about ten feet away. Sara and Damien both turned to look; it was the same woman who’d been reading a book earlier. “I’m sorry Colonel Rahal couldn’t make it tonight, but I’ve come on his behalf.”

It took Sara a moment, but that calm voice triggered something. The woman who had come up to help Asim after he broke into Aisha’s apartment—what had he called her? It started with a Z.

“How can I know you’re really who you say you are?” Sara asked. “And is Colonel Rahal the same as Asim?”

“Yes. Colonel Asim Rahal, for whom I’m a dutiful minion.” The woman bowed theatrically. “As for identity verification, I’d suggest we sort that out in a private setting. Since I’ve been watching you here, it means others could be too. Come, please. I’ve set up a shielded area.”







Chapter 35



Sara sat with Damien and this strange woman in her virtual private room, which according to her was a replica of her real-world apartment.

“Do you want tea?” the woman asked with a smile. Zhou, was it? Unlike how she appeared on the beach, she now looked like Sara remembered from when she and Asim arrested her. An Asian woman in maybe her late twenties, with dark hair pulled back into a bun.

“Yes, thank you,” Damien said. That must’ve been performative for those around him; he couldn’t actually taste or want anything.

“Sure,” Sara said.

Zhou manifested a cup of tea each for Sara and Damien, along with one for herself. “My device is an old, cheap model,” she said. “I can’t taste anything with this thing. But since this is my real apartment, I brewed some for myself in real life. Enjoy.”

Sara sighed and sipped her tea, and . . . wow.

“Heh. Good, huh?” Zhou said.

“What is it?” Sara asked.

“That flavor comes from cloves. My mother’s recipe,” Zhou said. “It’s even better in person. I think cloves pair so well with autumn, don’t you?”

Sara looked around. The apartment did feel rather autumn-themed, and cozy. Several painted Halloween pumpkins and flickering spiced-apple candles decorated the corners, adding warmth and fragrance. On the lamp table beside Zhou’s couch sat a framed illustration in colored pencil, seemingly drawn by a child, signed by someone named Scarlett.

“I guess so,” Sara said. Not knowing what else to add, she stared back at Zhou and took another sip.

“My name’s Ava,” she said, clearing her throat. “I understand your names are Sara and Damien, is that right?”

Sara nodded. “I thought you were called Zhou.”

“Ah, that’s what Colonel Rahal calls me in front of others. Special Agent Ava Zhou, at your service. Feel free to call me Ava.”

Sara thought for a moment. “What is this meeting even about?”

“That’s a great question. Maybe you can tell me? You were waiting for him on the beach, right?” Ava said with a smile, sipping her own tea.

“Can you even prove who you represent?” Sara asked.

“Tomorrow I can get Colonel Rahal to vouch for me. For now, I’ll answer questions as proof. For example, I walked in after the colonel fought you, and you were on the floor laughing and spitting up blood. I had to convince Jitters to let me arrest her without force, since she was worried about Scorpio. He’s an adorable Bengal cat who came out to check on you while you were still on the floor. Then, well, at Fort Hamilton things went wrong, and your creepy scientist took over. I barged in on you being interrogated, and one of the women was tearing at your shoulder wound telekinetically. I’m sorry it went like that. It wasn’t authorized by our group.”

Damien looked over at Sara.

“That all happened,” Sara said. “So it is you, then.”

“I’m Colonel Rahal’s minion. I’ve been on your case from the beginning.”

“So, you helped find me? Arrest me?” Sara asked.

Ava’s eyes widened. “Um, yes? Kind of.”

Sara sipped her tea, repressing a surge of anger.

Damien leaned forward and broke the silence. “May I ask, what are your goals, Ava?”

“I, um . . . you mean today, or like, in my life?”

“For this meeting, obviously,” Damien said. “You invited us here.”

“Well, my colleague notified me that GlitterJitters logged on,” Ava said. “Veronica’s still in jail, so we assumed it was Sara. She went to Colonel Rahal’s favorite spot, which is basically like trying to summon him.” She smirked and twirled her hand like a sorceress. “But he’s . . . off duty tonight, so I had to come on his behalf. I can relay messages to him, and speak for him a little.”

“He and I previously spoke at night, twice. What do you mean ‘off duty’?” Sara asked.

“Well,” Ava said again, her demeanor cooling down. “Most nights he still kind of works, but tonight he seems to be away entirely, which is rare. If you tell me what you wanted to tell him, I’ll make sure he gets it tomorrow.”

Sara stared down at her tea. “I don’t even know what I wanted to tell him. I don’t trust him anymore, but I didn’t know what else to do next, other than drastic measures.”

“Which drastic measures?” Ava asked.

“You ask questions like he does,” Sara said. “Always aiming for case intel. Obviously, I can’t tell you that.”

Ava eyed Sara for a moment, then smiled. “Let me try another approach, then. What would you like to tell Colonel Rahal and me, now that we’re here, having tea?”

“I . . . After everything, I wanted to hear what he had to say. To see if he had anything to offer after he ruined everything. Any reason at all to persuade me away from what I might otherwise have to do. I don’t have much time left.”

“What happened to you, it hit Colonel Rahal very hard,” Ava said. “In fact, I think that’s why he’s not available tonight. I can assure you that none of this went as he intended.”

Sara sighed. “That’s easy to say.”

“If there was a way for Colonel Rahal to help you, what would you ask?”

“To audit the Stolguard facility. Pause Class D trials immediately. Expose everything Stallard has done. Look into the assassinations. And let the subjects go.”

“And what would you do in the meantime?”

A frustrating question. Go after another yacht once this one ran out of supplies? Try Damien’s suggestion of eating only meat to test her powers? “Plan things,” she answered after a delay.

“Well, I generated a new identity key for this, so nobody knows who I am except you two. Here’s a passcode so you can come to this encrypted room and message me.”

“May I ask who Scarlett is? Do you have a daughter?” Damien asked, pointing to the framed illustration on the lamp table.

Sara looked at him flatly. He’d barely spoken, and that was what he chimed in with?

Ava smiled sadly and picked up the picture. “Scarlett’s parents were murdered a few years back. I was a police officer at the time, on the killer’s case, trying to stop him from doing it again. She’s with a foster family now, but we stay in touch, even visit sometimes.”

“Sounds like she’s in good hands,” Damien said.

Ava grinned as she put the picture back. “I do my best to make sure they spoil her.”

“I meant your hands,” Damien said. “My goal when escaping the facility was to find someone like you. Authorities who . . . cared. I knew it wouldn’t be easy, but there’s no other way than to start somewhere. By the sound of it, Colonel Rahal cares as well?”

“Probably too much for his own good,” Ava said. “That’s why I joined his team.”

“Then I must press the importance,” Damien said. “What Sara says is accurate. The Stolguard facility needs to be searched, and a boy there named Marcus must be separated from Thane Stallard, and soon. The implications of human-to-machine interfaces need to be studied, so that by the time this technology is rediscovered elsewhere, the world’s systems are prepared.”

Ava’s eyes went wide at Damien’s comment, and she took notes.

Upon finishing, she leaned forward. “I’ll talk to Colonel Rahal about these matters. But here’s an important question. Did Dr. Stallard mention anything about aliens at the facility?” She stared at Damien, then at Sara, her expression grave.

Sara shook her head.

Ava deflated, like air leaking out of a balloon. “I see.”

“I saw his files,” Damien said. “They did have some biological samples of extraterrestrial origin, from a long time ago. That accelerated their research, both for genetic patterns and brain structure design. That’s why it’ll take decades for this technology to re-emerge elsewhere. Other teams won’t have the head start that Thane had.”

“I knew it!” Ava shouted, clenching her fist in front of her.

Sara held her breath, ran that through her head again, then looked at Damien. “Wait, we’re part alien?”

He nodded. “Five decades ago, Thane was approached by DARPA during his PhD dissertation, since it was exactly the research they were interested in. He was given access to this top-secret material. According to his logs, he then became interested in genetic human specialization partially because the extraterrestrials this material came from seemed to be designed that way themselves, like a hive of sapient individuals. For early classes, he focused on getting the physical abilities working first to secure funding, figuring he’d refine the psychological side later, in future classes. Or when his plans for me came to fruition. The next phase would emphasize emotional and motivational optimization, like a form of mental domestication.”

“I knew it had to be something,” Ava said. “That’s why his tech seems so different than everyone else’s.”

“Exactly,” Damien said. “And that’s why it’s so devastating. Logically, by the time a civilization figures out Class D’s level of brain-computer integration on its own, the rest of their tech will also be resilient against its capabilities. But because Thane is working from alien material in secret, he’ll end up unleashing a genuine superintelligence at way too early a stage, rendering the gap between it and everything else too large for them to fight back against. It’ll win before they even know what hit them.”

“Why didn’t you tell me about the aliens from the start?” Sara asked. “About all this?”

Damien held up his palms. “I would have, in time. But we only had a week after I learned it. I needed you to focus on our escape, not be distracted by countless other revelations. I gave you the broad strokes of the threat, so you’d understand why we had to leave, and I planned to fill you in on the details later. Like I am now.”

Sara wanted to be angry, but she had no argument. Instead, she found herself staring at him for too long. No wonder he’d been so aloof that whole week. How much had been going through his head?

“Can you tell me how telekinesis works?” Ava asked, shifting her attention toward Sara. The agent was bubbly now, like a child.

Sara sighed. “It’s hard to explain to people who can’t see and feel the forces I do.”

“Try me, please.”

Sara sipped the spiced tea. Ava’s enthusiasm couldn’t help but remind her of Clare. “I’m a conduit,” she said eventually. “I transfer energy and momentum, conserving both, but make sure it transfers through my being rather than impacting my body directly.”

Ava nodded, taking notes as though she were in a classroom. She was certainly more likable than her boss.

“My, um, alien brain is modified to feel like I have four additional limbs. Two psionic arms, which we call foci, and two psionic legs, which we call bracers. They exist in another dimension of reality and are incorporeal unless I use them to impact matter at their tips, like hands and feet. And they aren’t literal limbs; mine can reach nearly a mile, can change shape, and can extend through matter. They’re invisible to you, but telekineticists can see each other’s foci and bracers as though they were ethereal, and their foci can interact, like blocking, redirecting, or grabbing each other’s attacks in a duel.”

Ava had sipped her tea while listening and was now trying to swallow the mouthful as quickly as possible, eager for the next question. “How do they cross into our dimension?”

“I suck out kinetic energy from air or liquid molecules, which turns them cold, and use the tips of my foci to transfer that kinetic energy as motion to other objects, or squeeze or twist them.”

“So, it does conserve energy,” Ava said.

Sara nodded. “And momentum. If I push a car with a focus, it pushes back on me just as hard, and since I’m lighter, I’d be flung away faster than the car. That’s why we have two bracers, or psionic legs. If I’m going to move a car, I grab it with, say, my right focus, and I plant my right bracer firmly onto the earth. The counterforce of moving the car transfers through my focus, through my bracer, and to the earth, which can absorb almost infinite momentum. I could brace on another object, like another car, but then it would shoot off in the opposite direction. Our bracers aren’t precise like our foci are; they only transfer the opposite momentum from our foci to whatever they’re braced against.”

Sara watched Ava’s eyes dart about as she tried to work through the description. Her curiosity had led her to talk about it more than she ever had before.

“But if you only have two foci, how do you lift so many cars at once?”

Sara paused. Ava was almost too inquisitive. But the goal from the start was to expose all of Stallard’s secrets, wasn’t it? “Each focus has a flexible shape and can split into psionic fingers,” she said. “I can pick up a dozen cars with one focus, because I can split that mental hand into a dozen fingers and grab a car with each one. But I have to apply the same force, in terms of speed and direction, to all cars held by that focus. Or I can widen the tip of my focus, imbue it with a ton of energy, and use it as a shield or a push, and block or blast through all objects across an area without grabbing each one individually. But that’s far less energy efficient. Only a couple of us are powerful enough to do that effectively. Me and one other.”

“But if you draw kinetic energy from the environment rather than yourself, what’s your limitation, then? Can you move anything?”

“Now you sound like Asim. Asking detective questions. Probing my weaknesses?”

“I didn’t mean—”

“Think of it like weightlifting,” Sara interrupted, forcing a smile. She pictured Bronn lifting all that iron. “We train over time to transfer more energy. The strain we feel as a conduit hits us with headaches and disorientation. Stallard says it causes micro-damage within our brains that heals over time to form denser connections. Talent matters too. Some improve a lot faster than others.”

“And you’re the best at it?”

“Only for power,” Sara said. “Some others are more precise. But since heavy things feel lighter to me, I can be precise with things that others would find hard to manage, like cars.” Thinking about it more, Stallard pushing her nearly to passing out each week—nearly to dying, perhaps—was likely what had built up so much latent power. Then there were several more years of her pushing herself. And once this fasting, or this ketosis, released it, the power came out as if a dam had broken.

“I appreciate the detail,” Ava said. “I don’t mean to use it against you.”

“Easy to say.” Sara rose from the couch. “I need to make sure my surroundings are safe, and I have tests to try. You two can stay and talk if you want. Maybe he’ll show you the visions.” She hated how robotic she sounded, but while she liked Ava, she didn’t really trust her, given how badly trusting Asim had gone. Damien as a mimic threw her off too. She needed space to think. For now, they were her only lifelines.

“Well, you have the passcode to come back,” Ava said. “I hope you will.”

Sara looked at Damien, and he met her eyes with a gentle smile. She couldn’t help but do the same.

With that, she logged off and checked her surroundings. It was dark now, and the family wasn’t around, which hopefully meant they were still locked in the cabin bedroom. She stood up, knees sore. Feeling lightheaded, she went to the barricaded door to listen and confirm that there were sounds coming from it.

“You’re doing fine,” she shouted through the barrier. “Keep this up and you’ll live.”

“There’s not much food. How long will you keep us here?” It was the mother’s exasperated voice.

“Not long enough for it to become a problem. Give the rest to the boy.”

Sara sorted through the food supplies she’d gathered, minus the portion she had given the family to rely on in their makeshift bedroom jail. Most of it was carbs, but there were a few meat sticks. She checked their ingredients, and thankfully they weren’t the sugared kind, almost all protein and fat. She took a deep breath, then ripped open the plastic around one stick and took a bite. Then another, and another, until she ate the whole thing, her body practically singing at the sensation.

She gripped her body with multiple points of her right focus, used her corresponding bracer against the sea floor sixty feet down, and lifted. And . . . despite eating a full meat stick, she could still do it effortlessly. She hovered a few feet above the yacht deck, and no headache came. From her prior tests, if she’d eaten the same amount of rice, she’d have been nearly powerless for hours.

If Damien proved right, and a ketogenic diet let her keep her amplified power indefinitely, then everything had changed. It meant she could try to be more deliberate, more cerebral, in her approach against Stallard.

Maybe so many people didn’t need to die, after all.







Chapter 36



Asim heard a muffled voice. He tried to ignore it, but it grew louder, closer.

“Again with this!” he thought she said. Or something like that. Certainly angry.

“What?” Asim asked. It was hard to even open his eyes.

“You were supposed to take Yasmin to practice half an hour ago.”

He forced himself to crack his eyes open. Janine loomed over him, and Yasmin stood in the bedroom doorway in her soccer uniform, staring down at her sneakers. He glanced at the clock, but his head spun. A faint mechanical buzzing came from somewhere. “No, there’s still time. It’s only—”

“How many did you have last night?” Janine shook her head. “I can’t believe you let her see you like this again.”

Fuck. Right. Saturday morning. Janine had to go into the office for a big client, and it was his turn to take Yasmin. He’d only meant to have a couple last night, but then . . . shit. “Look, Yas. I didn’t mean . . .” What was there to say? His head was still spinning. He squeezed his eyes closed and tried to orient himself. Get yourself together, dumbass.

When he opened his eyes again, feeling steadier, Yasmin focused directly on him. There wasn’t anger there, just disappointment. The edges around her eyes were pink. His precious fourteen-year-old had been crying. He clenched his teeth. How had he fucked this up again? And what was that incessant buzzing, growing louder?

Yasmin looked up at her mother. “Can we still—”

A drone struck the girl from above with a loud pop. Her head snapped to the side, and blood sprayed from her temple all over the wall.

“No!” Asim screamed. He lunged from the bed, catching her limp body before it hit the floor. The buzzing was unbearable. Shrill, whirling blades from overhead. Another pop—

Asim jolted awake, heart hammering, head splitting in pain.

Only a nightmare.

He took a minute to let relief wash over him, and for his pulse to slow down. Family drama and war. That was always a fun mix. He pushed it aside and reoriented himself around the present. Observe. Orient. Decide. Act.

He was hungover. Badly. The stupid thing about drinking too much was that you’d forget half the fun you had. And he’d had a lot of fun with Melody last night—at least from the part he remembered. A man should know his limitations.

He reached for his phone to check the time. Almost noon. Jesus Christ. There were eight unread notifications from Ava, and one from Brooks. His headache grew worse just from thinking about reading through them, so he set it back down and got up to make himself a cappuccino. He needed caffeine and aspirin before he could deal with anything of substance.

Not that it really mattered. It wasn’t like any of his actions lately had helped anyway. The past month of work his division had done on this case only made things worse. If he’d done nothing more than hang out on the fake fucking beach drunk this whole time, the world wouldn’t have been any worse off for it.

His eyes drifted over to Yasmin’s photos on his shelf, lingering on the one of her holding the damn soccer ball when she was fourteen, just like in the nightmare. He sighed. It was days like this that had ruined things with her. Even in the sweet pictures of her younger self, he could feel her judging him. She still hadn’t replied to his message from days ago, either. Not that he could really blame her.

His phone buzzed again, so he went over to look. Sir, are you okay? Don’t make me come knocking! Ava’s latest message read.

Couldn’t a man have a single day off?

He shook his head and opened the rest of the messages. If people were worrying about him, he had to force himself to check what they were saying. Ava never bothered him unnecessarily.

The first one was from Brooks last evening, saying GlitterJitters had come back online. Shit. The rest were from Ava asking if he would go in to talk with Sara, saying that Sara was at his beach spot, that Ava was going in herself, that she really needed to talk alone, and then asking him if he was okay.

A brief wave of excitement hit him. Sara had already reestablished contact. That would give them more to work with than he’d thought. But that wave vanished as soon as he remembered that it didn’t really matter anyway, since this was all above him, and no matter what he did it just made things worse.

I’m fine, he texted back to Ava. I took the day off given how the value of our work has been fuck-all lately. Meet for sushi at one?

He wasn’t hungry, but the restaurant had private booths, which would make for a secure enough spot to talk. And miso soup might help with his hangover, since it was salty and would restore electrolytes and shit.

She replied with three hearts, a thumbs-up, and a salute emoji.

Asim lay down on the couch and switched on the NewsCon stream. Atlas Rionz was giving a fireside interview. Great.

“You’ve been saying since—”

“Four years, Ivy. Ever since that one hack made everyone irrational.” The man had on the same white sweater as always. He must’ve had a closet filled with them in every one of his trillionaire compounds. “Look at this mess; the fact that they lost her again is inexcusable. The government hobbled itself by giving up some of its surveillance capabilities all because of one data leak. They’d have caught her even before your tragic newsroom attack if they weren’t holding themselves back.”

“But there are those who would—”

“I know what they’d argue, Ivy. Their little libertarian dreams.” Rionz gestured dismissively with his hand. “But we live in too dangerous a world for that now. That degree of privacy can’t be allowed as though we were still in the musket era. With the types of bombs and bioweapons people have access to now—or whatever the hell this Russian asset is using—it’s unrealistic not to give up some privacy for the sake of security. It’s time to give these people a firm ‘no.’ Time to be blunt so we can prevent these types of threats before they metastasize. It’s what every sane person wants.”

The interviewer opened her mouth but remained silent, and Rionz leaned back in his chair. “I didn’t mean to interrupt. Go ahead Ivy,” he added with a softer tone.

She nodded. “It’s fine, Mr. Rionz. To confirm, you agree with the White House’s statement that Jade is Russian? Until this morning they downplayed the scale of the attacks, only now blaming Russia after all the recent sightings over Brooklyn and Queens.”

“Yes. I can confirm it’s true, though of course I can’t go into full detail. She’s a Russian asset, regardless of Moscow’s denials. The only reason it hasn’t turned into war is because she’s believed to have gone rogue. The White House has known her origin for some time, but they were slow to blame Russia, for diplomatic reasons that I’m sure you can appreciate. But now they have little choice.”

The interviewer, Ivy, glanced toward the camera. “You heard it here, first. Atlas Rionz backs the Press Secretary’s latest statements.” She turned back toward him. “Speaking of which, some critics say you have a conflict of interest over this, and that you’re aiming for more defense contracts for the type of surveillance you advocate. How would you respond to them?”

Rionz furrowed his brow. “By telling them to try a serious argument.” Then his expression eased. “They fall back on weak character attacks like that because they can’t respond to my actual points. I don’t argue for more defense because I’m in the defense industry; I’m in the defense industry because I realize we need more defense. The polls are clear, and the President should use an executive order to weaken those recent blockages as much as legally possible. Hook everything back up and stop letting theater kids run our national security. Rionz Corp is already assisting free of charge until she’s caught. My priority is public safety, not money. If I was—”

“Off,” Asim said, and the stream muted. Fuck that guy. Rionz knew the government still had backdoors in most surveillance systems. It was his company’s equipment they used, after all. He probably knew they were being aggressively applied to this case, too, given that he was helping the Pentagon repeat their latest talking points. He treated every incident like an opportunity for his anti-privacy crusade. “Guy probably read Nineteen Eighty-Four as aspirational,” Asim said aloud to nobody, closing his eyes to ease the pounding in his skull.

A buzzing filled the room some minutes later. He cracked his eyes back open to look, but it was just his cleaning bot roaming around. Not a combat drone, of course, with its shrill whirling.

After watching it for a moment, he closed his eyes again. But now he was thinking about that hack all over again, from four years ago.

It had leaked audiovisual data from hundreds of millions of house bots. The government had secretly collected it into a giant honeypot and then . . . oops. Most of those data bridges were more secure now, but Asim still never liked to walk around naked near the damn things. There were probably videos of his dick online; he’d resisted the urge to search and see the bad news for sure, but they were almost certainly there. An ocean of everyone’s dicks.

But worse than leaked bodies were leaked conversations—things not meant to be shared. Personal failures immortalized and searchable, forever.



“Konnichiwa! Welcome to Koi Sushi,” the young waitress said, too loudly. Asim winced and pinched the bridge of his nose.

“Hello,” Ava said. “Thank you. Don’t mind him. I’ll take the tuna special, and he’ll have a cup of miso soup. Plus, two green teas and an order of gyoza for the table, please.”

The waitress bowed, collected the menus, and left. Ava shook her head disapprovingly once she was gone.

“What?” Asim asked.

“I don’t like those fake greetings,” Ava said. “They feel weird, you know?”

“That’s just their word for ‘hello.’”

“She’s Chinese, not Japanese, sir.”

“Oh. Wait. So?”

“A lot of sushi places are staffed by Chinese people, actually,” she said. “Japan doesn’t really have a big enough diaspora to run sushi places everywhere. It doesn’t mean they need to pretend to speak Japanese when they almost certainly don’t, though. This place does that for some reason.”

Asim gave a polite smile as the waitress brought them their teas and gyoza. He had kind of assumed most of the servers here at a sushi place were Japanese. For years now. Huh. He sipped his tea to distract himself from feeling awkward that he hadn’t noticed. He knew Ava was Chinese.

“Okay, fill me in on last night. Why the need to talk alone? You left your tablet in your car, right?” Asim asked.

“Of course, sir. I don’t know who to trust anymore, so I can only tell you. I try to put myself in Sara’s shoes and see if I would do anything differently.”

“Well for starters, you wouldn’t commit mass murder, I’m pretty sure,” Asim said.

“Not as me, no, but then if I were in her shoes, I wouldn’t be me, is my point.”

Asim rubbed his temple. “Okay.”

“That unarmored body at the rest stop, Damien, was Sara’s lover, sir. It turns out he created a mimic of himself, so he still exists in some form, verified by Sara. He found her last night, and the three of us spoke.”

Asim raised his eyebrows. “Hard to picture that woman loving anything.”

“You’d be surprised, sir. Damien brought out a different side of her.” Ava smiled.

“So, it turns out when she’s not murdering people, she’s more fun to hang out with?” He didn’t bother to hide his sarcasm.

She crossed her arms. “Well, to be clear, sir, I’m not excusing her actions. But the situation is ethically complex, as you’re aware.”

“Sorry. I’ll stop interjecting. I get it; you think she’s hot. You always do pick out the tomboys. Tell me the situation.”

“Sir, that’s not—ugh! Damien’s mimic confirmed he shares Sara’s fears about a dangerous entity in the facility. And not even an ‘entity’ really, but more like a fusion. Certain subjects in the facility can be hooked up to the facility’s datacenter and become a true superintelligence. That’s the third class you asked General Rodriguez about.” Her face was red now.

“A superintelligence sounds like a good thing,” Asim said.

“Apparently it overshadows the subjects’ humanity and empathy. Damien fears it could be catastrophic, especially if it emerges suddenly, before the world has any preparation. You know, when the capability gap is so asymmetrical. Dr. Stallard’s got the next subject almost ready. It’s not just Sara being delusional, sir.”

“Maybe they’re both delusional. Can’t Stallard or other scientists pause their operations if things get out of hand?” Asim asked. “Remember how many people were worried about AI decades ago?”

“This one’s conscious, sir. Supposedly, it can be incredibly destructive right from the start. Like hacking into weapon systems, power grids, and digital infrastructure. It combines human consciousness with a datacenter’s worth of processing capability. Damien says that if he hadn’t escaped the facility, by now that plugged-in version of him would already be wreaking havoc. Wielding all our drone swarms by the millions and things like that.”

“It’d start a war?” Asim asked.

“Damien doesn’t think it’ll be a war if it’s unleashed soon. More like a domination. Then it’ll put the pieces back together into its own hive of bio-engineered space fascists. Or that’s what the visions looked like.” She paused. “I think we should be whistleblowers, sir, and help them bring attention to the situation.”

He shrugged. “Based on what evidence? We have nothing other than a claim. You said that yourself the other day.”

“I’ve thought about framing this, and I think we can lead with both the ethical angle and the corruption angle, which we have more evidence for, and we can add this as an extra note to further amplify it. Damien told me a ton about Dr. Stallard’s goals, and says it’s recorded in the facility’s logs. We’ve got enough to push hard. He raises children from pods without rights, making super-soldiers for illegal hits. This is explosive, sir.”

“You’re saying we highlight the inhumane conditions and unsanctioned missions,” Asim said, turning it over in his head. “Argue the facility should be investigated. And we’ll add that also, this potential superintelligence threat needs to be analyzed for safety reasons. That way we can bring it up too, without sounding fucking insane.”

“Yes. I think so, sir. If we don’t blow the whistle, nobody will. I’m not sure how you’ve managed it, but part of Sara still wants to trust you.”

“Well, it’d be easier to gather sympathy for her cause if she hadn’t killed so many people.”

“But it’s the scale, sir. The next classes are bigger. Other subjects will keep killing civilians down the line, with near impunity, despite many of them not even wanting to. And then there’s the potential apocalypse. Those movies are never fun.” She plucked a piece of gyoza with her chopsticks and plopped it into her mouth as she stared at him, chewing.

Asim crossed his arms. “I don’t disagree with that. The list of assassinations Sara gave me is explosive if true. But you do realize that whistleblowers get their careers fucked up, right? Superiors and colleagues would turn on us. Official whistleblower actions go to the top in private and then basically vanish. If we go public with it, we risk prosecution for treason. So, if we take that swing, we can’t fucking miss.”

“I feel like I have to try, sir.”

He sighed. “Look. I understand the sentiment. But we’re two very small cogs in this whole thing. It’s unlikely to amount to much.”

“I think the brave colonel who grabbed his laser rifle and ran off to stop an invincible witch would disagree, sir.”

“Clever. But that was physical, and with a clear reason. This is legal, bureaucratic, and vague. It’s mostly out of our hands. Government in bed with industry, with every conflict of interest imaginable. And magical assassins now, because why not.”

The waitress brought them their soup and tuna, asked if they needed anything else, and left. Ava kept looking at him. That annoying, self-assured expression. He remembered feeling the same confidence at her age. The sense that you know the right path, that things are black and white. But as he went through shit for years, he realized he had no idea what he was doing and came back to a broken family, cracked by his absence and then shattered by all the baggage he brought home. Ava hadn’t been beaten down by life’s relentless insistence on being morally gray, ambiguous, and unknowable yet.

“You think I don’t care?” Asim asked. “When I was younger than you, I swore an oath to defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. And the joke was, ever since then, the most dangerous enemies I ran into ended up being fucking domestic.” He leaned in. “Yet, they hardly ever get held accountable. Bad guys win. The end.”

Ava raised her eyebrows, still with that stupid, confident face. Practically his own young face mirrored back at him. Seconds ticked by in silence.

“Fine,” Asim said. “I’ll put in a formal whistleblower complaint to the Inspector General with all the detail I have so far. But I can almost assure you that they won’t take any action on it, since we’re politically outgunned. And if we go public with it after that, like I said, we risk being prosecuted for treason.”

“We have to start somewhere, so I agree with that initial approach, sir.”

Asim lowered his voice. “Even the internal whistleblower approach is dangerous in this case, since we have evidence of Stolguard assassins taking out other whistleblowers. If we do this, we’ll have to watch our backs at all times. You ready for that?”

She smiled. “That’s why I joined you, sir.”

He leaned back, eyeing her. “Alright. I want to speak with Sara again. If we’re going to put ourselves at risk, we need her to lie low and stop killing. She has to actually listen to me for a change.” Saying it out loud made it sound so hollow, though. He barely trusted himself anymore, so why would Sara? And she was on some sort of clock, wasting away. He pinched the bridge of his nose at the complexity of this. He still had a headache from all the booze.

“I have a private room set up that she can access. I’ll try messaging her, sir.”

“I’m going to generate a new identity key,” Asim said. “Observers can’t track what our avatars say, but they can track if our avatars keep appearing in the same spaces as hers. So, we should use throwaway identifiers from now on. We don’t need the reputation scores of our main identities to access private rooms anyway.”

“That’s what I used last night, sir. A new identity key. I plan to use that one only for this context.”

“Good.”

“And there’s one more thing, sir.”

“Yes?”

“They are aliens! Or, well, part alien. Alien-mutants. Damien’s mimic confirmed it.”







Chapter 37



Asim sat virtually in Ava’s private room, styled after her living room. Sara was late, but the young man, Damien, had shown up on time. Or the mimic version of him, as it were. They had been talking for a while. Asim liked him, since he actually answered his fucking questions for a change rather than making him pry answers out like a dentist with teeth. He also asked questions of his own.

“Do you know if my body was returned to Thane?” Damien asked.

Asim nodded. “Yes. Yours and the others with green eyes at the rest stop were. He was insistent on that. Every blood and tissue sample, too.”

“As expected,” Damien said. “They consider all our bodily matter their property.”

Ava frowned.

“I still don’t get something,” Asim said. “How problematic can the supercomputer version of you people be, if the facility is kept offline when it’s active?”

“Well, I’m here, aren’t I?” Damien said. “Because that version of me created me, and weeks later when the facility came online, I slipped out. They keep access very narrow and tightly controlled, and yet I got through. If the system turns malicious, as I nearly did during my first run, there’s no telling what it could sneak out. All sorts of dangerous code. Plus, I could have convinced Thane to open a live connection to the outside world while I was plugged in and really let loose, which he basically wants anyway. Or I could have hacked the facility’s drones to force him to. Then it’s over.”

The door opened, and Sara walked in. She had blond hair now.

“You’re late,” Asim said. “Getting your hair done?”

“I had to tie some people up; they were becoming a problem. You’re using a different identity key than normal. How do I even know you’re you?”

“Straight to the chase, huh? The proof is in my charm,” he said with a smile. “No matter how much I fuck you up, you keep coming back to chat. You should generate a new identity key too.”

She remained stone-faced and narrowed her eyes. Not one for humor apparently. “What did we talk about on the beach that one time?”

“About why you look like shit. And about how my wife and daughter don’t like me anymore because I act like shit.”

“Sir . . .” Ava said.

“Good enough,” Sara said. She turned to Damien again, and her expression softened. “Your suggestion worked. That’ll buy me a lot of time. Thank you.”

“I’m glad it did,” Damien said, smiling. “I figured.”

“What suggestion? And time for what?” Asim asked.

Sara’s expression hardened again, and she only glared.

“Sara, sit here,” Ava said with a smile, tapping an empty seat on the couch next to her. “Does anyone want tea?”

“Thank you,” Sara said, her posture relaxing. She went and sat down where Ava suggested, pulling her feet up to sit cross-legged. Thin and bruised, she stared down at the coffee table.

“I’ll have some as well,” Damien said.

Ava looked at Asim.

“Uh, sure?” Asim said.

Ava manifested four cups, and Asim took a sip. “Delicious.”

“My mother’s recipe,” Ava said.

“Why should I trust you?” Sara asked, raising her eyes toward him. Damn, she was awkward. Her intensity of body language and tone were always dialed up to eleven, regardless of the context. Even the mimic was more charismatic than her.

“Well, you shouldn’t, to be honest,” he said. “And I don’t trust you, given how many people you’ve killed. I’ll be direct—you’ll never be pardoned for what you’ve done. The scale’s too big, too public. But I want to get to the bottom of this, and all my normal channels are either outgunned or complicit.”

“I don’t care about a pardon. What are you doing about the rest?” Sara asked. “Filing reports? Thinking about thinking about maybe investigating the Stolguard facility? Spinning in circles?”

“I filed a whistleblower complaint on the ethics of how subjects like you are treated, about credible evidence of domestic assassinations at the highest levels, and about a human-machine threat that needs outside safety review.”

“Oh, a complaint. That’ll do the trick. A strongly worded letter to some higher-ups that Stallard and his allies will no doubt make sure is buried? Great work, detective. Thank you.” She smiled in a way that didn’t reach her eyes again.

“I don’t see—” Asim began.

“I don’t see why I’m even still talking,” Sara interrupted. “They’ll just kill you like the other whistleblowers. What can you possibly do? Can you at least let Jitters and Aisha go?”

Asim sipped his tea and stifled his annoyance. She’d been tortured partially because of him, barely a day ago. She had every reason to be angry, even if all he’d done was arrest her, which had been the right thing to do.

He looked over at Ava. “Did you get a chance to check their status while I was off today? I told Master Sergeant Smith yesterday that ACI’s questions were done for now, but what about the Brooklyn police? And this tea is fucking amazing, actually.”

“Thank you, sir.” Ava beamed. “Veronica was transferred to NYPD today. I doubt their investigation will go far with her mugging crew all dead, and considering how hard it was for us to gather information on her in the first place. What would they go on? Aisha was released already, with the caveat that she has to stay in Brooklyn for now in case they have more questions. She picked up Scorpio, too.”

“So, can you get Jitters out on bail?” Sara asked.

“I can look into that,” Asim said. “If they don’t have enough evidence of her street crimes, they’ll have to let her go soon anyway. You told Damien that he bought you a lot of time. Does that mean you’ll stop rampaging so we can approach this more carefully? And who are those people you’ve got tied up?”

“You think I’m still stupid enough to answer any of your questions?”

Asim reflexively went to pinch the bridge of his nose, but then scratched it instead. “Look, I can provide some resources to help dig into the Stolguard facility. But it will take time. If you’re out there flying around killing people like a fucking supervillain, it limits my options. You’re already legally unrecoverable. Technically I’ll be aiding a fugitive. But if I can show that you’re back on a leash, at least temporarily, it gives me more cover to take legally risky steps if they work out in the end. Going after insiders is part of my job.”

“I won’t be on anyone’s leash,” Sara said. “Not anymore.”

“It’s just a figure of speech. Can we agree on no killing for now?”

Sara stared at him for several seconds, then sighed. “I need to stay secure, but other than that, yes. As long as progress is being made. You were right that I was on a tight clock before.”

“What resources can you offer, Colonel?” Damien asked conversationally, then sipped his tea.

Asim turned back toward him. Although this one was helpful, mimics were creepy as hell. Why would he drink the goddamn tea? Who did he think he was fooling? It wasn’t like he could taste it.

“In the coming weeks,” Asim said, “I’ll keep pushing whistleblower pathways. I can also provide you with basic updates to the case, assuming you’re not using them for violent ends. We could even have both of you record detailed testimonies that I can personally take to senior leaders. This is incredibly risky for me, but I’m willing to try.”

Sara glanced at Damien, who looked thoughtful.

“I think this is our best direction for now,” Damien said to her.

“But how—” Sara froze mid-sentence, her brow furrowing. She reached out and swiped at a menu only she could see, her eyes narrowing.

“What?” Asim asked.

She ignored him, focusing on Damien. “It’s from Fallon, or claims to be. She sent me a message.”

“What does it say?” Damien asked.

Sara pressed an invisible button, and her menu became visible to everyone, like a holographic notification in front of her avatar. A woman’s brash voice filled the room.

“Sara. Father sees your avatar is active again. Yes, we know it’s you now, thanks to that hooker. I have an important message for you, and only you. Meet me at the destination in the link below. Only your identity key can access it. I’m waiting there now. Love, Fallon.”

“Sounds promising, actually,” Asim said.

“That’s because you don’t know Fallon.” Sara took a deep breath, swiped the menu away, and exhaled.







Chapter 38



Sara logged into the private room Fallon had invited her to. It was nothing but a virtual field of wind-rippling grass beneath a crisp blue sky, dotted with fluffy white clouds stretching for miles in every direction.

Fallon stood tall, arms crossed, wearing her black armored combat outfit. Her chin-length black hair whipped in the wind, and she had a visual verifier flag proving it was her unaltered form, scanned by the device she was using. She smiled as Sara emerged as if out of a portal.

“It seems the dull blade has sharpened itself. It’s good to see you, Sara. I mean that.”

“What do you want?” Sara asked.

“Well, I have good news and bad news, I’m afraid. Which would you like first?”

“The bad news.”

“That’s practical,” Fallon said. “But I think I’m going to override that. You’ll take the bad news better after I give you the good news.”

Sara stayed silent. She didn’t feel like playing whatever game this was.

“The good news is, you have my respect, and my apology,” Fallon said. “I know I’ve been unfair to you. You have every reason to hate me and the facility. I’m not the person I once was, and I’m sorry for how I’ve treated you.”

“Is that supposed to mean anything to me?” Sara asked.

“Whether it does or not is up to you. I just thought I should tell you. It’s not easy for me to do.”

“You respect me because I have power now? Because I sharpened my blade? That’s how your mind works?”

“No, actually. It’s not only because you’ve changed. It’s because I have as well. Look, I had . . . issues when I was younger. I took them out on you unnecessarily that time we dueled. And that other time, well, that was right after Jax died. I wasn’t in a good place. Given what you just went through with Damien and what you did to Maria afterward, maybe you can understand now. It doesn’t excuse what I did, but at least I didn’t kill you like you killed Maria. She didn’t deserve that.”

“Why are you telling me this?”

“Because when I give you the bad news, I want you to know it’s not out of spite. It had to be done. It’s not personal.”

Sara concentrated, trying to think of things she’d missed. What bad news could Fallon surprise her with? “Fine. What’s the bad news?”

Fallon sighed. “You don’t believe my intentions. That’s fair, given how I’ve treated you. But remember this. I used your chosen name as soon as you picked it, just like I did with everyone else. Our names matter, Sara. I bullied you not because I viewed you as a number, but because I viewed you as a person. If I only viewed you as a number, I wouldn’t have bothered.”

“That’s great, thank you.”

“I’m serious. Back before I got so competitive, we spent time together, remember? When I was ten or eleven, and you were six, maybe seven. That was when you picked your name. We were almost friends back then, but we grew apart. That was my fault, not yours. I should’ve done better.”

Sara waited.

“Father . . . never really paid attention to us back then, did he?” Fallon said. “He’s warmed up since then, at least for some of us. He deals with adults better than children. But I did pay attention. I lived on the same floor with the rest of my, well, sisters. Saw who they spent time with. What they did. I knew you, in some way, even after we drifted apart. So, for example—and this is the bad news—I know how close Clare is to you. Almost as close as Damien was, I think. And so, I told Father that. That’s the kind of detail he wouldn’t otherwise know.”

Sara felt a spike of dread. “What are you saying?”

“You know what I’m saying,” Fallon said. “Clare’s a hostage now, though she doesn’t know it yet. She misses you and wonders why you’ve done such terrible things. I came here on behalf of our father to deliver a message. If you don’t turn yourself in within three days, Clare will die. Slowly. Very slowly. It’ll be awful.”

“You’re bluffing. Aside from me, why would Stallard kill one of his own subjects? She’s never caused a problem for anyone.”

“Clare’s a small price to pay for your capture,” Fallon said. “Besides, if you turn yourself in, she’ll be fine. That’s how this should go. I certainly don’t want her to die.” She looked down at her palm. “Unlike you, I actually went on missions with her. Taught her things. Did the dirtiest parts myself so she could keep her precious hands clean. In some ways, I know her better than you do. I promise, I’m not bluffing. I wish I was.”

“Fallon!” Sara raised her voice. “Why are you so loyal to Stallard now? Why even consider doing this to Clare, without listening to me? I’m trying to stop Stallard from doing to Marcus what he did to Damien. You could help. You don’t know the danger he’ll cause if he—”

“Spare me.” Fallon looked up from her palm. “I already had Santiago fill me in on your ramblings from Father’s interrogation. You’re afraid he’ll make some Class D threat he can’t control.”

“It’s true. Damien experienced it. He could reach into everyone’s systems, their weapons. He nearly turned evil. Marcus is next.”

Fallon shook her head. “Damien had a fraction of Father’s experience. You act with false certainty, willing to kill to stop a theoretical problem. By that logic, should I have finished you off when we fought, to prevent you from killing so many people years later? I’ve already admitted I was at fault there. But by your reasoning, maybe I didn’t go far enough. Are your kills on my hands now?”

“Your violence had nothing to do with knowledge of the future,” Sara said. “Mine directly does. It’s not the sa—”

“Just admit you’re trapped, Sara,” Fallon said, waving her hand around dismissively. “You know what I think? You want to do whatever you feel like. You’re acting out of anger and spite, and you hide behind grander justifications. But you know what? I get it. If I was in your situation, I’d be furious. You were the runt of the litter, and were punished for it unfairly. That’s why I opened with an apology. I want you to think things through rationally, for Clare’s sake. I’ve chosen a side. Father’s side. You can turn yourself in, trust that Father knows how to keep his experiments under control, and nobody else has to get hurt. Maybe in time, you can even reintegrate with us. I’ll try to be the big sister I failed to be before.”

“We both know he’ll either kill me, or worse. He’ll never risk me going against him again.”

“Perhaps. But then it comes down to whose life you value more. Yours or Clare’s. You’ll use other justifications to favor yourself over her, like bringing up this supposed Class D threat again. But—”

“It’s not a justification, it’s literally—”

“Look, I’m not much better.” Fallon smiled, showing her palms. “Admittedly, when I first prepared for you coming to attack, I was excited. I lusted at the thought of taking you down, flashy new powers and all. But then I realized how immature that was. Not everything is proven in fights. It’s also proven through strategy, loyalty, leadership, and avoiding unnecessary fights in the first place. That’s what it means to protect people. To be a commander. Let’s solve this peacefully, Sara. Don’t make me hurt Clare.”

“If you find yourself on the side that hurts the nicest person in the world, don’t you think you should reconsider?”

Fallon rolled her eyes. “Your entire approach is about the ends justifying the means. If one person suffers and dies to rein in a killer, isn’t that worth it? And like I said, hopefully it’s only the threat of it. We haven’t even told her yet, so you can make this all go away before anyone suffers at all, mentally or physically. I don’t like it either, but since she’s your best friend, she’s the best leverage we have over you if we’re going to avoid a full-blown conflict. We can’t have you out there causing problems for us anymore, bringing all this bad attention our way. My job as a commander is to protect those who report to me and to stop you from hurting anyone else. If I must sacrifice one for many, I will, just like you. But her blood will be on your hands. Painfully so.”

Sara wanted to say something, but her mind raced in too many directions.

“It’s okay,” Fallon continued. “I convinced Father to give you three days instead of one. I knew your kneejerk reaction would be to say no, but that eventually you’d say yes. Given some time, I know you’ll make the right choice. I’d even ask for my own sake, because I’m going to have to do this if you decline. Father doesn’t want most others to know, since it would hurt morale. I’ll have to tell Clare that you chose this for her, not me.”

Fallon clenched her fist in front of her, stared at it, and lowered her voice. “I’ll do it over days and send you videos, so technically if you’re a day or two late and reconsider, you’ll still be able to save her, or what’s left of her. But waiting to see if I’m bluffing would be a mistake. You’ll get the proof you want, though everyone will have lost. I’m speaking to you as earnestly as I can so we can both avoid that. You’ve always been too stubborn for your own good. This one time, I’m asking you not to be.” She opened her fist and turned her palm upward, invitingly, and met Sara’s eyes.

Sara found herself looking away. “It’s easy to fake a video.”

“I’ll make her say things only she would know, just for you.”

“If you hurt her . . .” She forced herself to look back up toward Fallon’s gaze. “I’ll make it my life’s mission to hunt you down.”

“Ah, there you are! I wouldn’t expect anything less.” Fallon smiled again. “We are who we are, but it doesn’t mean we always have to act like it. You love your new powers. You’d love nothing more than to use them on me, or at least try. But regardless of how a fight between us would play out, it wouldn’t undo Clare’s fate. Instead, it would only prove my point; you’re acting out of spite.”

Sara stared at her, suppressing a surge of anger.

“Here are the rules, straight from Father,” Fallon continued. “By Monday, three days from now, turn yourself in at our front gate. If you don’t, you’ll receive distressing videos, starting that evening. Don’t try any tricks when you come. We have guards with lasers all over the facility grounds now. Rionz made sure of that. You’ll be sedated and brought in. I’ll advocate for Father to treat you well once you’ve surrendered. I mean it. It’s my duty as a big sister. I want to atone for what I did to you. You didn’t deserve it. Neither would Clare if you refuse.”

Fallon reached out her hand, tapped a few invisible buttons, and vanished.

Sara lingered for a moment, watching the wind flutter across the endless grass. Such a beautiful place for such an ugly threat.

Eventually, she brought her menu up and switched back to Ava’s private room. When she opened the door, the three familiar faces turned toward her.

“What did she want?” Damien asked.

“Me. Either I surrender, or Fallon tortures Clare to death starting in three days. On Halloween, of all dates, which is a detail that I don’t think is lost on Fallon either.”

“She’s bluffing,” Damien said. “That’s ridiculous.”

Sara exhaled, noticing her breath tremble. “I don’t think she is. Stallard’s behind this. Not only Fallon. She just gave him the clue, since she knows more about me than he does. It’s the best leverage they’ve got. And she was very specific.”

“Well, you can’t turn yourself in, obviously,” Damien said.

“Either I try to attack the facility and risk both Clare’s death and mine, or I surrender. There’s no world where I would do nothing and let her be tortured to death.”

“Sara. We need to think logically about this. They’re preying on your emotions.”

“I won’t be able to function if I know Clare’s suffering. Emotions are all we have!”

“Is Clare one of your fellow subjects?” Asim asked. “Maybe we can get Fallon to say that on a recording. It would strengthen our whistleblower case.”

“I doubt it,” Sara said. “That’s why she only spoke to me, without witnesses. We could trick Fallon alone, but I think she’s only doing things Stallard approves of, and it’s hard to trick him. She said she’ll send proof, but they’ll probably make the videos’ context unclear to outsiders, like who’s being tortured and why. I need to think.”

Asim gestured for calm, as though it mattered. “Let’s—”

“Let’s not,” Sara said. “What do you even want from all this?”

“The truth,” he said, staring straight into her eyes and raising his voice. “To protect people. I’m fed up with all the corruption. The sheer persistence of this shit. If any of this is even remotely true, I want to fucking crucify those responsible. But Damien’s right. To do that, we need to think logically, strategically, and can’t rush. We’ve only got one shot.”

She looked back at him but couldn’t hold his gaze. She glanced around the virtual apartment instead. Nobody could be trusted. She logged off before hearing another word.

These people didn’t understand. Only one of them knew Clare, and he wasn’t even alive anymore.







Chapter 39



As the sun set, Sara leaned against the yacht’s railing, watching the waves she had always wished to see, thinking. Their supplies were dwindling, almost gone.

She’d been replaying that horrid exchange in her mind for the past hour. Maybe it was time to stop. Maybe enough people had died. Maybe Fallon was right, and she’d really been doing all of this for herself.

With Damien’s death, she’d lost what little connection she had to this world, and as a fugitive, she found herself with two options. She could roll over and give up, or she could fight. She’d chosen to fight.

But for what? Was it out of spite, like Fallon said?

She’d told herself it was for Damien’s legacy. For Clare and Marcus. For the children of the new classes, so that they might have a happier life. To stop all the corrupt assassinations they’d been born to carry out without even understanding why. For the countless lives that could be saved by exposing the dark god before it emerged. She told herself history was written by the winners, that there was no room for weakness. Innocents had died, and that was tragic, but didn’t they always?

She’d become a hollowed-out shell of power, left to carry out Damien’s will.

And yet, what if she really had done this for herself? To give herself a reason to keep moving? Maybe her selfishness caused unnecessary deaths, and it was all for nothing. Had she become a bigger monster than Fallon ever was?

With the real Damien gone, Clare was the closest person she had left. Even if she’d never get to see her again, she wanted her to be happy. Would Fallon really go through with it? Torture Clare to death? If anyone could, it was her.

Sara knew that if she were to receive a video of Clare in agony, she’d lose her mind. Time was ticking.

Damien, she texted. Can we talk alone?

Of course, he replied. I’m here for you.

She created a private room from one of the device’s default options: a penthouse suite overlooking the Hong Kong skyline, with the sun sinking behind mountains as the city lights flickered on in the blue-gold dusk.

A minute later, Damien entered. He wore a fake smile, trying to look cheerful but failing, which was a detail so realistically him that she wondered if Damien had programmed it that way on purpose. He sat beside her on the couch and stroked her hair once. A performance of a loving boyfriend, and it worked. She’d been physically touched so little in her life that each instance felt marvelous. She leaned her head on his shoulder.

“What is it?” he asked.

“I’m going to turn myself in.”

“Sara, you can’t. Please.”

“It’s either that, or I attack the facility from the sky and rain hell on it. Maybe fight Fallon if she makes it up that far. Though . . . with all the new defenses they have, I doubt I could do enough damage before I’m stopped.”

“As bad as that plan is, it’s better than turning yourself in. I don’t think Colonel Rahal’s whistleblowing alone is going to prevent Thane from getting Marcus hooked up to my levels soon. And you’ve seen the scale of what could happen next.”

“Maybe it’s okay,” she said. “You’re dead. I’ll be dead too, or kept in a state worse than it. Maybe your fears about the superintelligent entity won’t come true. And even if they do, does it really matter? Humanity would have done it to themselves. Why should we care? Are we even human?”

“The Sara I knew would’ve cared,” Damien said. “And you’re still her. You’ve just been through a lot of things you didn’t deserve.”

She straightened up. “You helped me off the rushed clock I was on, but Fallon put me right back on an even worse one. All I see are dead ends, arguments, and distant numbers of hypothetical lives. I put other people through a lot of things they didn’t deserve, and for what? Now that I know you’re here, I think you and Asim can carry on without me. Maybe my death can be the last.”

Damien was silent. Thoughtful. Eventually, he spoke again. “Yours is the last death I would ever want. Despite the numbers.”

Tears came to her eyes. How was he so good at that? “The night we escaped together,” she said, pushing through the emotion, “I was worried I would die before telling you how I felt. I even foolishly thought maybe we might . . . make love before we left. It was stupid in hindsight, but I figured that, if something went wrong, at least we’d have that experience together once. Could we have that experience now?”

Damien met her eyes, sympathy clear on his face. “We could, if that’s what you want. But . . . I don’t think that is what you want. Not truly. Do you really want your first time to be with someone who isn’t experiencing it with you? And in a limited virtual world? I’m honest about what I am. I’m only a mimic, Sara.”

“It’ll be my only time, not my first time, Damien. Then I’ll turn myself in. Maybe a good lie is better than nothing at all.” A tear slid down her cheek.

“We don’t have to think that way,” Damien said. “I know part of you has had a death wish for years, but you’re accepting this too easily. There are still options here.”

“Death wish!” she shouted. “I was born powerless in a prison where only power mattered. Humiliated, isolated, beaten. We were relentlessly experimented on, frequently in pain, and for what? The moment we tried to change any of that, you died. I never asked to be born in the first place! Forgive me if I’m not too clingy to my life.”

Damien reached out and hugged her without words. She was too furious to reciprocate at first, but eventually she hugged him back. It was crazy how realistic his touch was, warm and soft. She loved that, and hated it.

Damien released her and leaned back, smiling. “Oh, Sara. Come here. Let’s try this instead.” He stood up and held out his hand.

What was he planning? Sara eyed him, then took his hand. So smooth. So warm. Virtual warmth, she reminded herself. He helped her up from the couch and smiled at her, then reached down to her legs and scooped her up off her feet, holding her aloft, with a big grin on his face.

“Damien!” she said. An unexpected laugh broke out of her. She couldn’t remember the last time she’d laughed out of joy. The VR headset and haptic suit simulated the sensation of being carried better than she’d expected.

“Shhh,” he said, and brought her over to the bed. Butterflies fluttered through her belly. It was almost enough to forget about the pain everywhere else.

He rested her on the covers and climbed next to her. He put his arm around her, spooned her, and began stroking her hair. Then he kissed her on the cheek.

“The real Damien, the one who created me, would have wanted me to comfort you,” he said. She could feel his breath caressing her ear as he spoke, as his fingers ran through her hair, giving her tingles. So realistic. “But he would have wanted you to live, and to find someone else, in time. He wouldn’t have wanted me to pull you into a delusion. So, let’s stay here. With affection only. I can tell you haven’t slept much. Now that I’m here, you can let yourself sleep in peace. I’ll monitor your surroundings from your VR headset and wake you up if there’s danger. We still have time to think things through before making any rash decisions about you turning yourself in.”

Sara wiped her eyes and cuddled deeper into his embrace, feeling her eyelids grow heavy. For just this once, she let herself be who she was before. No hardened exterior. No purposeful dissociation. She deserved one delusion. One moment of peace.

She imagined herself with Damien back in her room before his death. This was an extension of him anyway, made by him, so she enjoyed his embrace as she drifted off.







Chapter 40



When morning came, Sara promised Damien she’d return soon, then logged off to watch the sunrise from her stolen yacht.

For once, she felt . . . okay.

But their food had run out. She’d given all the carbs to the family, which they’d eaten, and kept just the meat sticks for herself. It’d only been two days since she’d taken the yacht, but they’d been out on an afternoon cruise and hadn’t packed much. Last night, she’d been forced to tie up the parents after the father tried to break through the barricaded door. She didn’t want to kill them, so it was time to move on and let them go.

Part of her still wanted to fly straight to the facility and end it all there in battle, one way or another. Maybe she’d find a way to do enough damage before getting struck down.

Realistically though, it was probably time to surrender. She’d acted harshly with what little time she had, wasting away, and she’d killed people, each with families and rich inner lives, with little progress to show for it. People were right to hate her. Maybe all of it had been for nothing.

With that thought, she sighed and went to open the barricaded closet, where she’d put the boy with some blankets and a flashlight. As terrible as it was to lock him in there, it was better than tying him up like his parents. As she opened the door, he recoiled from her, frightened, clutching a turtle action figure in his hand. She had let him take his toys in there for comfort.

She looked down at the boy and felt another wave of guilt. She hated being the source of a child’s fear.

Crouching down, she smiled. “You’re safe. What’s his name?”

He glanced up, then back at his toy. “Le . . . Leonardo,” he whispered. “He’s a ninja.”

Sara stared at the figure for a moment, then smiled. “It’s funny. I wanted to be a ninja when I was your age. Things didn’t turn out how I’d hoped. Don’t worry. Today you’ll be on your way home, safe and sound. Come, watch the sunrise with me?”

After he used the restroom, they sat awkwardly together on the deck in silence, watching the golden rays light up the clouds in the chilly air. He still clutched that little turtle ninja, and eventually . . . it stirred a thought.

Maybe there was a middle path. Could infiltration be an actual option here?

Instead of raining hell on the facility and getting shot down, or surrendering herself in complete failure, could she somehow get Clare and Marcus out? Or could she sneak in and assassinate Stallard to give Asim’s division more of an opening to contest the facility through formal channels?

The Stolguard facility’s defenses would now be immense, with subjects recalled from missions, more guards, more drones, and countless lasers. Price and Asim had both told her as much. Impenetrable.

But what if it wasn’t? Even if the chance was slim. They probably didn’t know she still had Damien on her side, after all. Or at least, a version of him. And potential allies in the government. If what Asim needed was time, how could she best give it to him? Her mind worked through possibilities.

Damien, she texted eventually. That guard Jessica. You had access to the facility database. Do you know her last name? Can you find out where she lives?

Yes, he texted back. But what are you planning, Sara?

To be a ninja for Halloween, she wrote. Message those other two. I have an idea, but I need all of you to help make it smarter.

Will do.

As she waited for them to meet up, her decision crystallized in her mind.

She wasn’t blindly trusting Damien, no matter how much she loved and missed him, the way Fallon blindly trusted Stallard. She’d seen the evidence with her own eyes. Damien described the exact sequence of bugs that he pre-built to strike the facility for their escape, and they manifested perfectly. He’d aligned it in such a short period of time, while holding back only out of kindness.

What if he’d taken control of all the facility’s security drones and used them violently, rather than just deactivate them as he’d done? What if he had let her shoot Jessica near the exit rather than take time to spare her? They would’ve gotten out more quickly, potentially before Jolgen caught them at the fence and visually confirmed which direction they’d gone.

The unleashed version of what she saw that night, actively connected to the rest of the world with him lost in the machine, would have been beyond comprehension.

And she wasn’t doing this out of spite. If she had been, she wouldn’t have given Asim so many chances after how badly that jerk had hurt her. His intentions had been good; she was a monster in his eyes.

Stallard was obsessed and callous, leading others toward danger, either in the grand scheme of things like Damien feared, or even just on the personal level for more classes of subjects who would never have a choice. Fallon went along with it because otherwise it would challenge her own position. She’d only rebelled against the system until it embraced her.

Clare and Marcus deserved freedom. They all did. And if a false god was one day going to be born into this world, no good could come from it being under Stallard’s hand. Not now, not like this, and certainly not through Marcus.

She would do this because she felt it was right, at her core, with guideposts built from everything she’d learned from the people she trusted most in this world.







Part IV





Hades








Chapter 41



Clare picked at her eggs and toast with her fork. She wasn’t particularly hungry, since this was earlier than she normally ate. There was also her unusual company.

Fallon sat across the table. She had knocked on Clare’s door early in the morning and invited her to breakfast. They’d of course eaten together countless times in the past; that wasn’t the unusual part. She, Fallon, and Dalia had shared meals all the time during their missions in Iran, and ever since then they’d often find themselves at the same group table, either in the facility or in the field somewhere. She’d never liked Fallon, but they’d known each other all their lives, and Fallon had protected her in the field in more ways than one.

Just the two of them together, though, was rare.

“Is everything okay? Do you want to talk about something?” Clare asked.

“Not at all. I just wanted to spend some time with you.” Fallon flicked her eyes up from her plate.

Clare smiled, trying to conceal her unease. “Well, it’s been a while.” She forced herself to take another bite.

“Did you know that in the wild, only one in ten cheetah cubs survive to adulthood? Isn’t that pathetic?” Fallon asked.

Yep, this was going to be weird. “Um. Well, nature can be kind of—”

“If I was a cheetah,” Fallon continued, her eyes lighting up as she gestured with her fork, “I’d consider anything short of the reverse to be unacceptable. At least nine out of ten cubs must survive. You know?” With a flick of her fingers, she levitated a plum to her mouth and took a bite, then put a thoughtful expression on her face as the plum levitated back above her tray.

“I guess so,” Clare offered. “Is this leading up to something specific?”

Fallon finished chewing, then smirked. “No. I just figured I’d check to see how you’re holding up since Damien died and Sara lost her mind. It’s not my strong suit, but I wanted to be here for you, and I realized I haven’t done enough of that.” She mentally floated up a knife, sliced the untouched side of the plum, and levitated the crisp piece across the table to Clare.

After a brief hesitation, Clare plucked it out of the air and ate it, which gave her a moment to think. “I don’t know what to make of Sara,” she said once she swallowed. “None of it makes sense to me. I get why she wanted to escape. But I don’t understand why she killed all those people afterward. I’d give anything to talk to her again, if only briefly.” She fought back a surge of emotion behind her eyes and kept them dry. Sara wouldn’t have hurt Damien no matter what, regardless of what Dr. Stallard claimed. She loved him with all her heart.

Fallon eyed Clare as if noticing her sadness, then nodded and ate a mouthful of eggs with her fork while the half-eaten plum still hung in the air. “I can understand that. Loyalty’s important. People naturally want to give those close to them the benefit of the doubt. But when loyalties clash, it’s our duty that matters most. We need to keep that in mind.”

The hair on Clare’s neck rose. Was Fallon testing her? “Are you sure there’s nothing more specific you want to talk about?”

Fallon smirked again. “Honestly, I’ve been frustrated at how many people keep doing whatever they want. We’re soldiers. We have a command structure, and responsibilities.” She tapped the table. “But it starts with me; I have to lead by example. Part of me wants to rip Sara apart for what she did to Maria and Zarina. That’s not a constructive thought, though. As a commander, my job is to protect people. That means putting my personal feelings aside. And as I do that, I ask others to do the same.” She grabbed the plum by hand this time, bit into it without breaking eye contact, then set it back in the air as though on an invisible hook. Invisible to anyone outside of Class C, at least.

“I already told you I’m compromised when it comes to Sara,” Clare said. “I admitted it from the start. And we don’t have all the information. That’s why I want to focus on other things. Like helping Bronn protect the fallback areas if any of the worst-case scenarios happen. To protect the children.”

Fallon looked softer now. “I get that, Clare. I do. But those worst-case scenarios aren’t going to happen. Those plans are for optics, for those rattled by the Pentagon footage. This facility isn’t like that. Look around.” She held out her hand to the full cafeteria. “All these people, all this equipment, geared toward her. She can’t touch this place. If she tries, she’ll die. The only question is how many people she’d take with her first.”

“So, what do you want?” Clare asked.

“Nothing. Like I said, I wanted to check on you. I could’ve used someone doing that for me over the years. But whenever Bronn tried, I always pushed him away. You’re not as hot-headed as I am.” Fallon smiled. It was uncharacteristically warm, with no hint of sarcasm. “You know, I’d take back some of what I did to Sara if I could. But that’s not how things work. We have to deal with reality in the present.”

Clare studied her. Maybe this wasn’t a test after all. Maybe Fallon wanted to get something off her chest.

“Is there something you’re conflicted about?” Clare asked, doing her best to make it seem warm. Some part of it truly was.

Fallon raised her eyebrows and pushed a chunk of her short hair behind an ear. “My philosophy has always been to refuse adequacy and pursue greatness.” She took another bite of the plum and chewed for an awkward number of seconds. “People think greatness comes down to luck, but it doesn’t. It’s about choosing every day to hold yourself to a higher standard than the day before, and higher than others expect. It’s about being vigilant, and catching yourself whenever you start to settle for good enough. It’s built from relentless, incremental decisions to improve. You know?”

Clare hadn’t heard Fallon open up like this before. Maybe she’d spoken this way to Jax or Maria or Bronn over the years, but never to her.

“Makes sense,” she said. “I think that view can be pushed too far, but I see your point. What’s the conflict, then?”

“Let me ask you a personal question,” Fallon said, putting both elbows on the table and leaning in. “What would you give your life for?”

The answer came out of her, almost without thinking. “To protect the people I love.”

“Good answer. And unsurprising,” Fallon said with a respectful nod. She leaned back and crossed her arms. “I think about that sometimes. Before Jax died, I thought greatness was about myself, being the best at whatever I did. Like if I was a cheetah, I’d have to be the fastest one. Because running fast is what cheetahs do. What’s the use of a slow cheetah?” She waved her hand dismissively. “But Jax put my safety over his own. He distracted himself in battle because he was trying to get me out. By doing that, he lost his life but saved mine. We all know about sacrifice, of course, but it’s different when it happens right in front of you. I realized then that greatness needs a wider circle of relevance to be worth anything. It’s about being the cheetah that’s faster than the others not just for her own sake, but because the purpose of that speed is to keep more of her cubs alive than other cheetahs can.”

Clare nodded, unsure of what to say next. She thought about how to phrase something regarding Jax, but then Fallon spoke up again on her own.

“Raphael’s plans are all about defense, like minimizing casualties and quickly taking Sara down if she attacks here,” Fallon said. “It’s sensible, and we need someone who thinks that way. But the best option would be to avoid that fight altogether. To stop her before she can hurt anyone else. And before she can draw any more attention toward our home from those who would demonize us. It’s time to go on the offensive.”

A chill ran through Clare. “Offensive?”

Fallon’s face was unreadable. “Yes. I can’t go into specifics, but if the mission is to keep the most people safe, here or anywhere, that makes sense to you, right?”

Clare sighed. “It would depend on those specifics, but I get the logic.” She fought back another surge of emotion. Sara, where are you? Are you okay? What are you doing?

“Well, I’m glad you agree.” Fallon glanced around the guard-filled cafeteria, her jaw tightening, then fixed her gaze back on Clare, sharper than before. “That’s the job of a commander, after all. To make the hard choices.”



Thane watched as Marcus screamed, clenched his teeth, and screamed again. And then some more. He had given Emmett the day off for this session and decided that he would start doing that more often when it came to Marcus. He didn’t want the man’s distractions today; it was time to accelerate.

The sheer amount of subtle damage Damien had inflicted on the facility’s codebase proved how powerful this capability could be once fully developed. They were still uncovering his little bugs, hidden here and there. At first it seemed like a setback, but in the grand scheme of things, it had been a successful proof of concept.

The boy stopped screaming and began breathing heavily, deliberately, in a pattern. Exactly the way Thane had taught him to do when the pain became unbearable, rather than the inappropriate laughter that Damien was prone to letting out during these peak surges.

It wasn’t that Thane was callous toward the boy, strapped down and suffering as he was. Rather, it was that he knew Marcus was strong, like Damien had been. Plus, Thane had learned from experiments with Damien how to get there faster this time. Within months, Marcus would reach the level that Damien had taken years to achieve. They were right at the finish line.

At the control dashboard, Dr. Cornell Frost, one of Thane’s senior scientists, operated the system in Emmett’s place. Five more minutes remained in this interfacing session, and there was little left for Thane to do unless more serious warning signs appeared.

So, he walked over to Marcus and ran his fingers over the boy’s brown hair, eyeing the large plug in the back of his head. Thirteen years old already. He did try to be more fatherly these days. Little touches of comfort. Brief words of encouragement. Using their names once they’d earned it. Things that were more important for the subjects than he had originally realized.

He glanced toward the observation window, where Raphael, four guards, and two scientists observed. Michelle would normally have been there, but he’d given her the day off as well. He would have to do this more regularly to keep up the momentum. It wasn’t that he disregarded Emmett and Michelle’s perspectives, but there was a time for caution, and a time for progress. They had already charted the cautious course with Damien, and now it was time to retread it more progressively with Marcus. With Price dead and DoD politics uncertain after this mess, it was time to move faster.

Marcus’s breathing faltered, lost rhythm, and he screamed again.

Thane felt sympathy for the boy in his gut, but if achieving godhood demanded pain to get there, then so be it. It was truly within reach now. Marcus would thank him when all was said and done.

Everyone would.



Raphael answered his phone. “What is it?”

“Sir, I have Colonel Rahal from ACI on the line for you. He says it’s urgent. Should I connect you?” asked Deborah, his coordinator.

“You mean his man Flanagan?”

“No, sir, it’s Rahal himself.”

Huh. “Alright, connect us.”

“Yes, sir.”

As Raphael waited, he watched Thane stand there next to the screaming boy. He thought he’d be used to it after all these years, but these tests just seemed to get more unsettling over time.

“Costa, you there?” The colonel’s voice.

“Yes,” Raphael said. “But your guys have my guys’ number. I’ve got my hands full, given the state of things. What do you want?” Ever since the facility had been given surveillance resources equivalent to what ACI could bring to bear, Raphael hadn’t been in much contact with the colonel’s team.

“Well, good morning to you, too,” the colonel said. “I just wanted to call and give you a tip directly. You know, given the state of things. But if you’re going to be an ass, maybe I should’ve let our bureaucracies misplace it instead.”

“Just tell me, Rahal. I’m sure we’re both busy.” Raphael pushed open the door and left the observation room quietly, careful not to disturb the researchers.

“We just flagged a series of 83 to 86 percent matches for Jade down in Florida,” the colonel said. “With all the copycats out there, it might be nothing. But these sightings were in Tampa. Close to MacDill.”

Raphael paused. MacDill. Was she really going for General Rodriguez? With all their defenses?

“You still there, Costa?”

“Are you sure?” Raphael asked.

“No, I’m not fucking sure. That’s what 83 to 86 percent means. But it’s high enough that I wanted to let you know directly. I just called and warned MacDill, and the FBI. Most flags turn out to be nothing. But this is MacDill. You know that was on her list.”

Raphael found himself pacing in the hall. He’d been focusing almost all of his team’s surveillance resources on Jersey, around the facility. This would complicate things. “Can you send us more details?”

“I’ll have one of my agents, Zhou, send them over,” the colonel said. “Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got more calls to make.”



Yasmin groaned and rolled over in her sheets to check her buzzing phone.

It was Dad, again. Two missed calls back-to-back. She’d been meaning to reply to his message from nearly a week ago, but time had flown by. It was the heart of fall semester, after all.

Another buzz. This time a text.

Yas, it’s serious, just give me two minutes or I’ll get really annoying, it read. I’ll call the university or do other embarrassing stuff.

She imagined it in Dad’s voice and couldn’t help but smirk. As the phone buzzed yet again with a video call, she forced herself to sit up and answer. “Hey.”

“Oh, so you’re still alive. Good to know, Yas.” He was in the driver’s seat of his parked car somewhere, wearing his trench coat, smiling. The morning sun lit half his face.

“I was sleeping,” she said.

“I figured. That’s why I called now, so you wouldn’t be in class. You okay?”

“Sure. Why wouldn’t I be?”

“Well, sweetheart,” he said, sarcastic as ever, “it is a national state of emergency. The President’s probably shaking under his desk in a bunker somewhere. Least you could do is give me a thumbs-up on my texts.”

“All that stuff is on the East Coast, it’s not like—” She stopped. Wait. “Did it affect you?” How hadn’t she thought about that?

He chuckled, running a hand through his hair. “You could say that.” Something was different about him. A warmer, livelier look, despite the serious topic. “Listen, things are an absolute shit show here and I can’t really talk about it, but I want you to do something. Stay in one of your friends’ dorms for the next couple nights, okay? Not your own. Just in case.”

“Why?”

“I can tell you more later. It’s probably nothing, but I might have a few extra enemies at the moment. Humor me, okay? I’m having your mother do the same thing. And try to keep an eye out in case anyone follows you around campus or something. Call me if they do. Encrypted, of course.”

Yasmin imagined trying to explain this to Katie while asking to sleep over, without sounding like a total weirdo.

“Yas, did you hear me?”

“I’ll do it,” she said, and sighed.

He smiled again. “Good. If this case doesn’t . . .” He trailed off, then seemed to reset himself. “This Thanksgiving, I want to see you. I’ll fly out there, or wherever you’ll be. Just for a day—I know you’ll probably have other stuff with your mother or friends, but I can work around that. Okay?”

“I . . . yeah. Is everything all right?” She brushed her hair back, suddenly self-conscious. How had she not thought to ask him if he’d been caught up by all the stuff in the news?

His eyes grew glossy, but his smile widened. “Well, now that I got in touch with you, yeah,” he said. “I love you, Yas. Always have.”

A surge of emotion formed behind her eyes in response, and she smiled to contain it. “Love you too, Dad. I know.”







Chapter 42



A day after leaving the yacht, Sara sat on Jessica’s living room couch with the lights off. The house was only ten miles from the facility, and sneaking here undetected had been complicated, but Asim had improved the odds by diverting a portion of multiple agencies’ surveillance resources toward MacDill.

She watched through the wide front window as Jessica pulled up to her driveway, the last rays of sunlight flickering through the pine trees from the west. Jessica was either the luckiest guard in the world, or the unluckiest, depending on how you looked at it. Sara preferred to think of it as the former.

The woman stepped inside with her son and closed the door, bringing in the musty scent of dry leaves along with a brief howl of autumn wind. After flipping on the foyer light, placing her keys on a nearby console table with a metallic jingle, and hanging her coat, she froze. Slowly, she turned toward the half-lit living room.

“C17?” she whispered.

“Yes,” Sara said quietly. She had slipped in through a second-floor window, using her telekinesis to unlock it. Then she’d kept her distance from the cleaning bot as it made its rounds every hour, since that was an alarm risk. Infiltration had been part of her training, and burglary wasn’t so hard when you could fly and had incorporeal arms that could reach through glass. “Deactivate the security system. And don’t enter the fake code that silently calls the police, either. I’m not stupid.”

Jessica hesitated, then nodded and tapped the code into the panel. Her son stood beside her, staring at Sara.

“What do you want now?” Jessica asked after she finished. Her face was pale, she took slow, deep breaths.

Sara rose from the couch. “I need a few things, then you and Max can go back to whatever you were doing. I had a similar interaction with another family for the past couple of days. They’re fine.”

Max seemed more curious than afraid. “Who are you?” he asked.

“I used to work at the same place as your mother.” She forced a smile but knew it came off wrong. She didn’t have much experience with kids other than Marcus, and he’d been smarter than her since he first learned to talk.

Max inched back closer to Jessica. “What happened to your face?” he asked.

“A bad person cut me,” Sara said.

“Don’t talk to him!” Jessica shouted. “What things do you need me to do? Haven’t you done enough?”

“Only a little more,” Sara said. “I need to stay here tonight, and tomorrow I’ll need a few favors. But for now, let’s keep Max comfortable. Does he have a favorite movie?”

“Spiderman!” Max shouted.

They both looked down at him.

Sara shrugged. “Let’s put on Spiderman, then.”



Sara sat with Jessica at the kitchen table. Small and cozy, with the muffled sounds of Spiderman leaking in from the living room. Sara looked around, appreciating the normalcy of the place and trying to imagine what it would have been like to grow up here, with parents and all.

“Now what?” Jessica asked.

“Now, you keep Max completely in the dark. Tell him I was playing a prank, that I’m your work friend. Because if you mess this up, I’ll have to lock a six-year-old in a closet, which neither of us wants.”

“And if I go along? Then what?”

“You give me intel, and I use your credentials to infiltrate the Stolguard facility as you. After that, you and Max never see me again.”

“That’s treason on my part,” she said.

“Not really. Tell them I threatened you. They’ll understand. Let’s make this easy like last time. You’re guarding a horrible place. I need to break into that horrible place. Nobody with their kid threatened would get in trouble. Probably.”

Jessica glared at her and then, with some hesitation, nodded. “What do you need?”

“First, I need you to do nothing. And your promise that you won’t find clever ways to reach out. I’ve collected your electronics, but even if I missed something, please don’t use it. Don’t try to outsmart me. If the police come, I’ll have to use you and Max as hostages or kill more officers. So, let’s skip all that, okay?” she said tiredly. “I let you go before,” she added.

“Fine,” Jessica said.

Sara reached incorporeally into Jessica’s chest with her right focus, placing it on her heart. “I can feel your pulse, your lies if you try them. Tell me about the enhanced security at the facility.”

Jessica swallowed. “Raphael . . . he put me on leave for a week after you escaped. His team grilled me to make sure I wasn’t complicit. By the time I came back, they’d tripled the number of drones and guards. Way more of us carry lasers now, including on the roof and grounds. Colonel Torbeth’s Air Force base keeps flights up constantly, with tons more on active standby.”

“And Stallard? Where is he?”

“In the facility. But he doesn’t stay in his quarters now, since he knows they’re a target. He moves around, and only Raphael, the guard subcommanders, and his closest bodyguards know where he is at any given time.”

“Tell me about the drones. What can they do?”

“They’ve got normal vision, plus night vision and thermal imaging. They still patrol the fence like they used to, but now there are more inside and around the main building, too. They have lethal and nonlethal projectiles, but lethal requires human authorization first. They try to detain intruders nonlethally by default.”

Sara nodded. That matched Damien’s data. Jessica’s heartbeat was elevated but not too much. “Do the guards all know each other?”

“Some of us do. The long-timers from Eidolon Solutions. But since they brought in new firms, there are lots of new faces. Most guards from the same firm know each other, but not really across firms. Everyone wears ID badges, though, and you’ll get stopped without one. Front gate guards know the most people. Door guards are often the new ones.”

“How do you all coordinate?”

Jessica sighed. “I’m so screwed for this.” She looked down at the table. “My radio gives access to the facility-wide main guard frequency. Security leaders like Raphael, Fallon, Santiago, and the guard subcommanders have a second frequency. I don’t have access to that. Guards report to their subcommanders, and ultimately to Raphael. And since they were called back from the field to protect against you, Raphael gave us instructions to follow Fallon’s and Santiago’s orders during an attack if they issue any.”

“Do you know what Fallon is planning?” Sara asked. She found herself staring at the drawings pinned to the refrigerator. Eight papers filled with colorful images. Max’s work, clearly. Some of them showed him standing with two smiling parents: Jessica with her auburn hair and a man with short blond hair and a halo over his head. Others showed Jessica with Max alone.

Jessica shrugged. “I mean, that’s not really part of my briefing. Fallon’s coordinating a lot of the defense with Raphael and Santiago, though. I just guard the halls.”

“Do you know of any plans Fallon has for Clare?”

“Um, no. That’s C14 right?”

“Yes. Is Clare there? At the facility?”

Jessica nodded. “She’s one of the subjects that was called back from the field.”

“Is anyone expecting me to come there? Turn myself in?”

“Should they be?” Jessica asked.

Sara studied her face to see if she could sense any lies and found nothing. No heart rate increase, either. Fallon had said that they would keep that plan unknown to most. “Tell me about the facility’s identity verification systems. There’s the ID badges and what else?”

“We have to wear our ID badges everywhere,” Jessica said. “The front gate, the doors to the building, and displayed on your person in the building.”

Sara waited for more, but none came. “And what else? Facial scans, right?”

“Right, but facial scans have some issues,” Jessica said with a shrug. “So they’re used more selectively. Everyone’s face is scanned at the front gate and the building front door, but not at the building’s employee-only side doors, since they’d jam up with hats and sunglasses as people go in and out frequently. Really secure areas like Dr. Stallard’s quarters also have facial scanners.”

“What about the security drones? They scan faces too, right?”

Jessica’s heart started beating quicker.

“Careful,” Sara whispered. “Tell me.”

Jessica took a deep breath. “They do. But here’s the thing. When drones scan from a distance, it’s too glitchy. Early on, they stopped people too often in the corridors. Bad angles, hair in the way, whatever. Workflow broke down, and researchers complained. So, Raphael had the security team tune it down. Inside the building, drones still scan faces, but they only act if they get a clear scan of someone not on the list, rather than acting any time they have an obstructed scan. The drones still check everyone’s ID badges in the corridors, since there’s an RF chip in them and they don’t need line of sight for those, but their facial scans are more of an extra check now.”

Sara thought for a moment. “Does anyone check back seats or trunks each time when employees go through the gate?”

“Only for deliveries, not for employees, since it would create a delay at the gate, especially in the morning. We’ve all had background checks, and we go through the front gate facial scan and ID badge scan, so they consider that enough.”

“You only have a pistol here. Where do the rifles go?”

“We check them in and out of the armory daily. First floor, north side. No one takes them home. Except Raphael.”

“Anything else I should know? If my plan fails from you withholding something, I’ll have to come back for you and Max.” She wouldn’t, of course, but Jessica didn’t need to know that.

“No,” Jessica said quickly. “I swear.”

“Good. The more you give me, the safer you both stay. Now,” Sara said, leaning back in her chair, “I need to look like you.”



Jessica made dinner, including a plate for Sara without the carbs. She put Max to bed, and then Sara put Jessica to bed. She handcuffed one of the woman’s wrists to her bedframe with her own set of guard handcuffs, warning her that if she even tried to break free, Max would die.

Sara now had access to all of Jessica’s equipment: armored vest, uniform, radio, pistol, handcuffs, and ID badge. She still had the yacht family’s electronics as well. The augmented reality sunglasses from the yacht would be particularly useful, with their hands-free recording function.

The hardest part was still ahead, though: hair dye. She eyed the box where it sat on the bathroom counter, amping herself up. Jitters had previously handled it for her and had been the one to suggest it in the first place.

On her way here, dressed as the yacht mother and using that family’s cash, Sara had bought auburn-colored hair dye from a pharmacy to replicate Jessica’s appearance, along with makeup and hair bleach. Black-dyed hair apparently couldn’t turn auburn without first bleaching it, then re-dyeing, which she’d only found out from scrutinizing the directions on multiple boxes.

Jessica wasn’t any help, so Sara worked through it alone. The bleaching, the waiting, then administering the dye. Half an hour in, frustration nearly made her quit, but she forced herself to finish. The result wasn’t perfect, nothing like the outcome Jitters would get effortlessly, but it was passable. She even trimmed the front to mimic Jessica’s side-swept bangs.

In the mirror, an unfamiliar thin face with sunken eyes stared back at her. The scars were a problem, too. She flinched as memories of the van came flooding in, but pushed them away with a shake of her head.

Testing the concealers she’d bought, she found the one that best matched her pale skin and set it aside. Tomorrow, she would spread more of it on to make the scars less noticeable.

Lastly, she went through Jessica’s nail polish, which she’d forgotten to buy. These details mattered. Jessica had purple nail polish on, and so Sara applied the same. It was another frustrating process, since she’d never done it before, though it didn’t really matter whether her work was sloppy. She wasn’t fooling the drones, or even the guards up close. She only needed it so that from a glance, guards would see someone with their nails colored. She’d have to minimize showing her right hand anyway, thanks to the three nails Jolce had ripped out. Another memory to push away.

With Damien’s virtual help, she disabled Jessica’s car horn. She also asked him to update Asim and Ava, telling them her part was going as planned and to be ready for tomorrow.

Sleeping, as always, would be tough. Since her escape, she’d barely managed more than short bursts of it, except for when Damien kept watch for her. Max slept in his bed, and Jessica was only restrained by one hand. That opened a risk; the boy could wake up and go talk to Jessica, and she could give him instructions to slip out and get help. Sara could have restrained both of them more thoroughly to prevent that, but it didn’t feel right. Maybe this would be the mercy that would come back to haunt her.

She curled up on the floor in front of Jessica’s bedroom door. If it opened for any reason, she would hopefully feel it fast enough to act.

With the faint clicks of the kitchen clock and the subtle scent of detergent drifting from the laundry room, she closed her eyes and slipped into a fitful rest.







Chapter 43



Ah, the sweet smell of treason in the morning, Asim thought as he sipped his cappuccino.

He didn’t like the plan, he would pretend he didn’t know about the plan, he expected failure from the plan, and yet here he was, going along with the fucking plan. Hell, he’d even helped to plan part of the plan.

Given an impossible situation, sometimes a man had to pick the best out of a bunch of bad options. Since Sara was going to do something extreme either way, he could at least help maximize results and minimize collateral damage. After all, he knew a thing or two about how to fuck a place up with proper sophistication.

That was what he’d done with Roy and other spec-ops teams in his prior life: help them identify and strike targets as surgically and effectively as possible for the desired outcomes. Some of the things he’d done in the war were arguably worse than this. At least this one was his choice.

The difference, of course, was that this would be highly illegal from the perspective of his own government. Then again, his government’s actions were illegal here too, or at least the portion he was after. They just had more guns on their side.

And assassins, of course. Flanagan’s crew had spotted a short-haired telekinetic woman keeping watch on Asim’s apartment over the past two days. A skilled killer named Dalia, according to Damien. Sent by Stallard, no doubt. It would’ve almost been insulting if the doctor hadn’t sent someone to poke around for a hit by now. But Asim had been sleeping in a spare office at ACI headquarters ever since filing the whistleblower report, so at least the uncomfortable nights hadn’t been for nothing. It was best to look on the bright side.

Sara would have three objectives in her infiltration today. Two of them he supported. The third one, well, it was what it was. He understood it, even if he couldn’t quite condone it.

Lately, he’d been feeling irrelevant. With the FBI, CIA, NSA, DIA, DHS, Stolguard facility, and several alphabet soup parts of the DoD all going after Jade the terrorist, what difference could one man make? He was just another cog in the machine, and whether he did his job well or not, someone else would. That’s what redundancy was for.

His career felt hollow. He’d hated his role in the war, had grown disillusioned with it, and ruined his family along the way. Shifting to counterintelligence work gave him a modicum of fulfillment, focusing on defense rather than offense, but that too had dulled over time. His cushy job practically ran on autopilot—surveillance feeds, his team doing the legwork—while he coasted, directionless and more alone than he’d ever expected to be at this stage of his life.

Well, what he was about to do today was something that nobody at those other agencies would step up and do. If he didn’t, then it wouldn’t get done.

By risking his career, and even his freedom, maybe he would regain some sense of purpose, and a man needed a sense of purpose. In that way, as much as he disliked the plan, it still somehow felt right.



Sara woke up curled against Jessica’s bedroom door, ready for the most dangerous day of her life. Most people would have found the prospect terrifying, but there was almost something comforting about it. An end to this, one way or another.

Sure, the plan had more nuance than that thanks to Damien and Asim, but her part would likely be violent, as always. Sometimes it takes a monster, she reminded herself.

It was Halloween, after all. A day of ghosts and ghouls.

She donned her gear, covered her scars with makeup, released Jessica, gave her instructions, then ate breakfast with her and Max. Sara noticed the boy kept sneaking glances at her, more than he had the night before.

“What is life, to you?” Sara asked Jessica after finishing a bite of bacon. They’d been silent for a while, so it came out more awkwardly than she’d intended.

Max stirred his cereal and slurped down the last soggy pieces, eyeing her.

Jessica looked up from her plate. “What?”

“It’s just, I want to know what you think. You pleaded for your life that night at the rest stop. What makes a good life?”

Jessica glanced at Max, and Sara winced. She wasn’t supposed to say things like that in front of him.

“A good life . . .” Jessica said, looking at Max, “is when you get to act on your own accord. And when you get to spend time with your family and friends, and with God.” She rubbed Max’s shoulder, and he smiled.

“Then the subjects at the facility don’t have good lives by that definition,” Sara said. “Why work there?”

Jessica froze, then set her fork down. “I . . . figured it was for national security. The subjects seemed satisfied enough, and there’s that well-being therapist. And it pays a premium, which I needed after . . . well.” She shrugged. “I never signed up to keep subjects locked in. I guarded it as I would any other building, like my last job. Just more lucratively, with all the extra clearances required.”

Sara shook her head. “You signed up for all of it. Can’t pick and choose the nice parts. You knew the subjects weren’t free.”

“Why do you look like Mom now?” Max asked out of nowhere.

That’s why he’s been looking at me, Sara realized. “It’s my Halloween costume. How close do I look?”

“You’re not as pretty as Mom.”

“Max!” Jessica said, stifling a laugh.

Sara smiled. “Fair enough.” She glanced at their mostly empty plates, then stared at Jessica.

Jessica checked the time. “Okay Max, bus comes in fifteen. Time to get ready. You’re looking forward to seeing Miss Walters, right?”

Max smiled and nodded. Sara could feel the corners of her lips turn upwards as she watched the spark in his eyes. Pure, innocent excitement.

“Good,” Jessica said. “Time to get your shoes on.”

Max slipped into his sneakers while Jessica gathered his school supplies and lunch box into a little pack. She helped him sling it onto his shoulders, then crouched to his eye level and ran a hand over his hair to smooth it out. She tapped her own cheek and smiled at him. Max looked over at Sara shyly, then turned back and pecked a kiss onto Jessica’s cheek. Jessica still smiled as her gaze lingered on him for several seconds.

“Mommm,” he said, drawing the word out, sounding impatient.

“Sorry. Just admiring how handsome you look today.” She leaned in and kissed Max on the forehead, then stood up. Her eyes had gone glossy, holding back tears.

“Where does the bus pick him up?” Sara asked.

“Just down the street. I’ll walk him there and be right back.”

“Can you see it from here?”

“Um, from the lawn, yeah.”

“Maybe today, let Max walk down the street to the stop. You could wait on the lawn and watch until the bus comes.” Sara locked eyes with her to make clear it wasn’t a request. She couldn’t risk Jessica going out too far and signaling anyone. Besides, the things she’d been expected to do at six would terrify these people. That was the year she fired her first gun. A twenty-two caliber.

Jessica stared back, then looked down at Max. “Sure,” she said after a long pause. “Max, we’ll show Sara how much of a big boy you are, okay? Let’s go.”



The morning outside was crisp and clear, with a spotless blue sky overhead and the musty scent of fallen leaves hanging in the air. Sara lay motionless on the backseat floor of Jessica’s SUV, her thin body hidden under a scatter of random junk. She listened intently as Jessica rolled up to the Stolguard facility’s main gate.

“Jess,” the gate guard said through the open window.

“Hey Donnie, happy Halloween,” she said back. Two beeps followed, indicating the facial scan and her ID badge scan were both successful.

“Doing anything tonight with Max?” he asked.

“Just taking him around the neighborhood.”

“Good weather at least, for a change. You’re clear, go ahead.”

The car started moving again. Once they were far enough from the gate station, Sara sat up and looked around. “Alright, stop there,” she said, pointing over Jessica’s shoulder from behind.

Jessica pulled into a quiet corner of the massive lot and killed the ignition. Overhead, a pair of fighter jets roared past, patrolling the airspace.

“Keys and ID,” Sara said.

Jessica handed them over, then put her hands in her lap and lowered her eyes toward them. “You’re going to kill me, aren’t you? That’s why you asked me about life. About why I work here. To try to justify it.”

Sara smiled faintly. The thought had crossed her mind. Knocking people out wasn’t as clean as anyone liked to imagine. They wouldn’t stay unconscious for long without a serious head injury. And a nonlethal choke would only put someone down for a few minutes at most. With all that was on the line, she should just kill her, quickly and painlessly.

Yet she found herself too weak for that and had planned accordingly. “Not if you listen. Hold out your hands.”

Jessica paused, then obeyed. Sara handcuffed the woman’s wrists together through the steering wheel, speaking as she did.

“I disabled your car’s horn last night. Don’t bother honking once I’m gone. And don’t do anything else to attract attention. Just sit here for the next half hour, and then you can start trying to get someone to free you. If you do that, you and Max will live happily ever after. If you mess this up, then you’ll have me as your enemy.”

Once the cuffs were in place, she leaned in close to the side of Jessica’s face. “And trust me, you don’t want me as your enemy.” As she said that last part, she used one of her foci to grab and twist part of the driver’s side door, rendering it impossible to open, and filling the cabin with the grinding sound of steel.

“. . . I won’t mess it up,” Jessica said. She swallowed and put her chin up.

Sara leaned back. “Good. Max needs you more than this place does. Be still, and tonight you can take him trick-or-treating, or whatever it is you do.”

Jessica nodded, and Sara stepped out of the SUV, hoping she’d pushed the intimidation hard enough. Without a working horn or door, and parked far from patrols, it would take time to get attention even once she started kicking and shouting.

Sara walked across the long stretch of asphalt, disguised as Jessica as closely as possible. Armor, gear, auburn-red hair, scar concealer, nail polish, and most importantly, her ID badge. Jessica’s pistol was holstered on her hip. The augmented reality sunglasses from the yacht concealed her eyes, doubling as a video recorder to transmit whatever she saw. As a final touch while walking, she put in wireless earbuds to make it look like she was listening to music and slipped a piece of chewing gum into her mouth.

She spotted guards everywhere. Many of them had lasers, and they’d been strategically spread out to make them hard to disrupt. Several stood on the roof as well. Drones continuously flew around the building perimeter now, rather than just the fence perimeter. Her worst fears about this place were on display—any sort of flying around out here would get her shot down instantly, unless she flew high enough to be out of the lasers’ reach, and up there she’d have the jets and drones to deal with. It would have been impossible to enter the facility without a disguise and genuine ID badge like this, and without Jessica’s real face at the front gate.

Once inside, she’d have plenty of walls for cover against lasers. Until then, these long sightlines were a problem. Her shoulder was still injured, and her whole body ached, but she couldn’t do much about that. A roar sounded throughout the sky, from multiple jets.

She thought about Asim again and smirked. With one secret phone call, he might have already sabotaged this whole plan for all she knew. But Damien had said he trusted him to stick to the mission and would monitor him for signs of subterfuge. She figured that if it came down to Asim turning on them, then it was never meant to be. Without him, whatever she managed here wouldn’t amount to much anyway.

Approaching one of the building’s employee side doors, she thought of Clare to steel herself. This wasn’t a numbers game anymore. She couldn’t quantify the vast threat Damien feared, nor could she know what the future should look like, but she at least knew the world had to see what went on here. And her friends had to be free. Sometimes wars weren’t about numbers, but about principles. When she first left this place, she’d made a promise to herself that she’d come back for Clare and Marcus and others, one way or another.

Well, here she was. Another jet roared overhead.

Two guards were stationed at the door, both with lasers. The scanner beeped and it opened as she reached it, thanks to her ID badge. One door guard seemed more curious than the other, staring a bit too closely, but it was hard to say if she was imagining it or not. She feigned confidence and kept marching forward. Just through the door, no lingering, no second-guessing. She readied herself to crush their heads if they were to so much as twitch, but neither did.

She turned left. The sterile scent and white-lined corridor brought a familiar sense of unease, but she just had to remain visibly confident. Finding Clare was her first objective, so that she couldn’t be used against her. Then Sara could initiate the other two parts of the plan.

“Hey!” shouted some other guard from behind. One of the relatively few women.

Sara waved her hand and kept walking. She couldn’t risk speaking back to someone who likely knew Jessica’s voice.

“Jess?” the woman said, more insistently. Sara ignored her, pretending she didn’t hear. The character she was playing listened to music now. That was why she wore earbuds. Jessica’s formal duty didn’t start until the top of the hour. Normally at this time she’d be walking to the armory to get her rifle.

She strode toward the cafeteria, continuing to project confidence and belonging past two patrolling guards with laser rifles. A lot of the new guards don’t know each other, she reminded herself. But then there was a security drone, monitoring the busy corridor. Her disguise wouldn’t fool it. As she approached, she looked down and pretended to cough, covering her mouth and nose with her hands. Her sunglasses still covered her eyes as well. The drone pivoted toward her, and she tensed, but then it pivoted back. It must’ve scanned the RF chip in her ID badge and found it to be genuine, and Jessica had been right: the drones were tuned not to overreact after a missed facial scan. She took a deep breath of relief.

At the cafeteria, several subjects and guards were eating breakfast, but not Clare. Of course. That would’ve been too easy. She turned back, walked down another corridor toward the facility’s eastern stairwell, went in, and ascended.

A door opened above, followed by the sound of footsteps. She paused to listen; it seemed casual, neither running nor sneaking. A moment later, Carter and his imposing frame rounded the corner of the next flight of stairs. He had a holstered pistol on his hip but otherwise seemed to be off duty. No armor. No rifle.

He looked at her and stopped. Sara slowed and eyed him for a moment, pretending to be casual, but yes, he knew. Shit. She’d hoped to avoid close run-ins with other subjects like this. His right hand inched toward his pistol, and she sighed.

With one focus she crushed the pistol, then the ceiling camera, and with her other focus she grabbed him by the throat, choking him before he could shout. Not too hard; she didn’t want to crush it yet.

But Carter broke out from her grip and lunged. She had gotten used to manipulating normal people, but Carter was strong, and she’d held back too much. In response, she re-gripped him harder, just before he reached her. It was easy enough, but she fought not to overdo it. She squeezed his neck, making sure to press on both of his carotid arteries. Seconds went by, and his thrashing subsided as she laid his unconscious body on the steps.

Now what?

If she left him like this, he’d wake up within minutes and become a problem. Logically, she should kill him—there was no reason to give this place any potential edge. Yet, she hesitated. Her pulse quickened, tension rising from her indecision.

She swallowed, steadied herself, and instead used one of her foci to bash his thigh in, breaking his femur with an awful crack, like a branch snapping. It would keep him sidelined for the day, but with his enhanced healing he’d recover after all this was done. She kept a wary eye on him as she slipped past and continued up the stairs, leaving his broken body behind. One of these mercies would come back to get her killed, she knew.

She had to move quickly. People rarely stayed unconscious for long. Carter would wake up and get help, and a camera had now been disabled, which would be flagged almost immediately in the facility’s heightened state. The Jessica disguise would start wearing thin as word spread.

Sara stepped out of the stairwell doorway onto the second floor and strode past the Class B dormitories toward the Class C wing. Three guards with lasers patrolled the corridor, and she prepared to strike if they so much as flinched. But none of them showed any inkling of recognition or concern, and she proceeded straight to Clare’s room.

This variable was a big unknown. Although Sara had already checked off the cafeteria as a likely spot during breakfast hours, Clare might be in her room, in a restroom, or somewhere else in the facility, like the pool. Still, she had to start somewhere.

She knocked lightly and casually opened the door, careful not to draw the guards’ attention. And inside was . . . Jolce sitting at Clare’s desk alone, in armored combat attire, reading manga. Jolce turned around to look. Why—

“Sara? Is that you?” Jolce asked, then smiled as she stood up and dropped what she was reading on the desk. “I can’t believe you’re this stupid. I thought Fallon was wasting my time, but she was right. How’d you even get in?”

“What are you . . .” The hair on Sara’s neck rose as she looked around for traps, and noticed a camera attached to the room’s ceiling. Normally the subjects’ rooms didn’t have cameras. She mentally crushed it.

The facility’s building-wide emergency alarm started blaring.

“Too late. Everyone will know you’re here now,” Jolce said, shrugging. “I’m supposed to tell you that if you leave this room or harm me, Clare dies. Stay here and surrender.”







Chapter 44



Sara’s mind raced. She stepped fully into the room and locked the door. Staying in the corridor for even a second longer would be suicide, now that the alarm had been triggered and laser rifles were everywhere. She avoided the room’s east-facing window too, since drones and laser-wielding guards patrolled the grounds. This room was now a beacon, drawing forces in.

“You’re in on this plan to hurt Clare?”

“Only if you refuse to surrender,” Jolce said with a grin.

“If Clare dies, so do you,” Sara said.

Jolce’s eyes narrowed. “I’ll be the least of your worries in a moment.”

“Target confirmed in Clare’s room,” Santiago’s voice said over both Jolce’s and Jessica’s radios. “Red-brown hair instead of black or blond. Team en route.”

“I’m getting into position, package en route,” Fallon’s voice added, but only through Jolce’s radio, not Jessica’s. That had to be the leaders’ frequency.

“Roger,” Santiago said, only through Jolce’s radio.

Sara’s pulse hammered, and options spun through her mind. She could burst out the window, but the facility grounds were blanketed by laser coverage, and Fallon might go through with her threat to kill Clare. From outside the door came a growing commotion. The guards in the corridor could have kicked it in by now, but they knew the threat she posed from behind it and were clearly planning something more deliberate.

A phone rang. It sat on the bed.

“That’ll be for you. Answer it,” Jolce said, shaking her head. “I still can’t believe Fallon was right.”

Sara paused, unwilling to take her eyes off Jolce. After Fallon, Jolce was the strongest telekineticist left, and an experienced assassin. Cautiously, Sara picked up the phone and angled it so that both the screen and Jolce stayed in her line of sight. It was a video call. She answered.

“Sara?” Fallon’s smiling face appeared. She wore her armored combat attire and held Clare in front of her, one arm wrapped loosely around her neck. “Nice costume. But you didn’t follow my instructions. Tell her, Clare.”

“Protect yourself, Sara!” Clare shouted.

Fallon scowled and choked Clare hard, glancing down at her. “That’s not what you agreed to say. Why is everyone so unreliable?”

“Stop!” Sara shouted.

“I will, as long as you listen,” Fallon said, her eyes back on the camera, and looming a few inches taller behind Clare. She eased her arm a bit, but Clare was still partially choking with Fallon’s arm semi-tight around her neck. Fallon was probably using one of her foci to immobilize Clare too, since Clare wasn’t reaching for the arm. “There will be a knock at your door by a lab dork. You’ll open it and let him give you an injection. That’s all. No reason to fight. Nobody has to get hurt, especially Clare here.” She kissed Clare’s temple and stared at Sara through the camera.

Sara’s heart pounded in her chest. What could she do? Should she just surrender? Let the entire mission end in failure, just like that? A loud knock came at the door.

She glanced toward it, then back to the phone, trying to study Fallon’s background. Where is she?

“He’s here. Open it,” Jolce said, loudly enough for Fallon to hear through the phone as well.

Fallon appeared to be on the second floor like they were, judging by the same carpet style. The morning sun slanted in through a window at her side. Facing eastward, then, like the room Sara stood in. A long row of Class C bedrooms faced east along the corridor she’d come in from.

“I’ll count to three, Sara,” Fallon said. “Then I’ll start ripping body parts off Clare if you haven’t taken the injection. I’m not bluffing. Let’s avoid that.” She tightened her arm around Clare’s throat again, turning her face red and forcing her to gasp.

Sara clenched her fists. They were definitely in another bedroom. She caught a nightstand at the edge of Fallon’s video.

“One.”

Was it Fallon’s bedroom? Would they be there? If so, that was only three bedrooms over to the left—her prized corner suite. Sara instinctively turned and looked in that direction. Someone knocked on the door again.

“Two.”

No. Sara turned back. A hair tie rested on the nightstand next to Fallon and Clare. Fallon never wore them. Her chin-length cut couldn’t gather into a tie; she only wore clips, if anything. Sara glanced at Jolce. The tie was just like the one she wore for her long braid. On the screen, Clare sagged, falling unconscious from Fallon’s choke, her struggle ceasing.

“Three.”

Jolce’s room was . . . five rooms down in the opposite direction, to the right. Jolce and Clare had likely been switched after Fallon’s threat. That was part of Fallon’s trap, in case Sara tried something like she had today. And she’d fallen right into it.

“Time’s up,” Fallon said. “I’ll start with an ear, then.”

Now or never. Hopefully the rooms in between were unoccupied, given the circumstances.

She planted her bracers and blasted straight at the wall with her right focus, aimed toward Jolce’s room. A wide and energy-inefficient directional blast, harder than any other telekineticist besides Fallon could do. The air turned frigid, frost settling on the carpet around her feet.

The kinetic blast tore through five walls, five bedrooms, straight to where she hoped Fallon was, and parallel to the long corridor that Sara had come in from. At the fifth room, it slammed into a strong resistance, and Fallon’s video call cut out. Dust rose into the air from the rubble in the series of shattered rooms ahead.

Jolce attacked. Both of her foci surged toward Sara from the left, with lethal force. The air grew colder still, but Sara was ready. She mentally grabbed both of Jolce’s foci with her left focus. Jolce pulled her foci back, splayed her fingers and split her foci into several sharp points each like the spiked wings of some demonic angel, then relaunched them. Sara split her left focus into just as many parts to immobilize each one. Ironically, it was Clare who’d trained her in this.

Jolce’s nostrils flared. Her strength surged as she pushed with everything she had, trying to break through and reach Sara’s body. But it wasn’t enough. Not even close. Sara held firm with just her left focus.

With both her foci firmly blocked, Jolce reached for the pistol at her hip. She was only a few feet away, so Sara lunged. With her right hand, she grabbed the weapon, and with her left, she shoved Jolce back hard, tearing the gun from her grip in the process.

Jolce stumbled backward. Disarmed and snarling as she recovered, she looked as though she might physically rush back in, but stopped herself. They both knew how that would end; she was small and had never taken martial arts training seriously. Sara held Jolce’s pistol down at her side, with Jessica’s still holstered on her hip.

Jolce’s foci had already weakened from the distraction. Instead of coming closer, she refocused and tried to break both of her foci through Sara’s left focus, but she failed to gain any ground.

Sara’s instinct was to end Jolce right there, but she hesitated. If anyone deserved it, it was her. There probably was no other choice . . .

“Idiot!” Fallon shouted, her voice distant.

Both Sara and Jolce looked through the line of busted walls and rubble as some of the dust settled. Fallon stood about forty yards away in the fifth room, Jolce’s room, facing them with her forearms in front of her in the shape of an X. Both of Fallon’s ethereal foci crisscrossed out in front of her, matching the shape, forming a shield.

Clare lay slumped at Fallon’s feet, seemingly unconscious. Likely from the choke. For Clare’s sake, Sara had purposely blasted no harder than she knew Fallon could block, hoping she would do so in time, and of course she had.

“Fallon! Status?” Santiago shouted over the main frequency, his voice coming out of both Jolce’s and Jessica’s radios. The whole facility would’ve heard the blast.

“Plan B. Engaging target now,” Fallon said in a low voice over the same frequency. “Let’s go.”

Fallon’s eyes flared with visible rage, and her hands turned to fists as she dropped them down to her sides. Thick frost spread all around her on the floor, and both of her foci surged forward toward Sara, forming an even stronger combined kinetic counterblast back through the five rooms, and equally as wide.

Sara had no time to dodge. She could block it, but likely not with only one focus. And letting go of Jolce’s foci to block Fallon with both of her own would mean death from Jolce. It was two versus one.

Sara mentally grabbed both of Fallon’s blasting foci with just her right focus, trying to halt their momentum like she had with Jolce’s. But damn, they were strong. As she suspected, her one focus wasn’t enough to stop both of Fallon’s. So, she pivoted and used the full might of her right focus to push Fallon’s dual blasting foci toward Jolce’s side of the room, and simultaneously took a swift step away from Jolce. Slightly redirecting was more doable than outright stopping.

Jolce widened her eyes with last-second realization and was liquefied by the hit, splattering into guts and bone shards as Fallon’s dual-foci blast ripped that whole side of the room apart. The wall behind Jolce disintegrated with a thunderous crash, and the east-facing windows next to her shattered outward into the cool autumn air, with drops of blood mixed among the glass.

Both of Fallon’s foci whipped back toward Sara. With Jolce’s foci now gone, Sara used each of her foci to grab and hold each of Fallon’s. They became locked in a full telekinetic grapple, with Fallon trying to ram both of her foci straight through her chest like ethereal spears, and Sara holding them back.

Fallon screamed, a rising guttural roar, her voice echoing through the ruined rooms as well as out of Jessica’s radio, as she somehow pushed harder and harder. Sara gritted her teeth and held firm. It took a tremendous amount of energy, more than she’d ever expended at once before, and her head throbbed. The air turned arctic, and a massive circle of frost widened across the floor all the way to the walls.

A heavy slam shook the door a few feet away. Not good. Both of her foci were preoccupied protecting herself from Fallon, so she took a step back and readied the pistol she’d taken from Jolce. She couldn’t aim properly when concentrating so much on telekinesis, but these shots would be up close. She prepared herself.

The door burst open with a second slam, and Sara shot at it from the side, dropping the first guard to come in, then the second and third, all with headshots from a few feet away, before they could get a shot off.

She had the advantage of a chokepoint, knowing where they’d come from, while they had to turn left and spot her in the room before getting a fix on her. But there would be countless more out there now, and her foci weakened briefly whenever she concentrated on taking a shot, even up close. Still locked in a telekinetic grapple with Fallon across the rooms, she waited for a fourth and fifth to come through the doorway, but they paused for a moment.

Fallon’s scream subsided, but her eyes still stared daggers down through the rooms toward Sara, and her foci kept pushing insanely hard. Through Jessica’s radio, Sara heard Fallon speak again, sounding hoarse. “Go in, Santiago. I have her pinned but can’t hold much longer.”

No! Her pistol would be useless against Santiago in his full head-to-toe, heavy armor. Or any armored Class B member.

But . . . Fallon’s push was diminishing. She was strained. Tiring faster than Sara. Using dynamic inclusion, Sara split her left focus to grab both of Fallon’s foci, then took the risk of releasing her right focus from the grapple.

With everything she had, she held back both of Fallon’s weakening foci with only her left, just in time to crush Santiago’s armored head with her right focus as he burst through the doorway. But he moved fast; a laser blast that he managed to get off at the same time struck her left side, straight through her armored vest, sending a shower of golden sparks into the room and a surge of agony back through her body.

As Santiago’s headless body crashed to the floor with a wet slam, splattering some of its blood onto her, she screamed and fell to one knee, dropping her pistol to the frozen carpet. Fallon’s two foci were suddenly inches away from spearing through her chest, and she frantically re-concentrated on holding them back. The split-second distraction had almost been enough for them to fatally close the distance.

Another guard came through the open doorway behind Santiago. There were legions out there. Sara strained to keep both of Fallon’s foci at bay with her left focus, while with her right focus she crushed that guard. Not just his head, but the top half of his body as well, since it was so hard to even aim her mental grip in this state. He splattered into bloody chunks across the room.

Three drones flew in, straight through the spray of blood before it could even settle, but Sara crushed those, too. Then with her right focus, she picked up Clare’s bed and desk and slammed them against the open doorway as a temporary barricade, rattling the concrete wall on impact. Her recording sunglasses had fallen off somewhere.

So. Much. Pain. She squeezed her wet eyes shut and concentrated all her might on holding back both of Fallon’s encroaching foci with her left focus, while also holding the barricade against the doorway with her right as someone pounded on it.

Is this it? The end? There were too many of them, and the pain was unbearable. Had this whole thing been doomed from the start? Like her and Damien’s escape had been?

“Just let go,” Fallon’s hoarse voice said through Jessica’s radio, “and I’ll make it quick.”

Sara’s head throbbed. Her side burned. She laughed out loud to distract herself from the agony as she tried but slowly failed to hold back both of Fallon’s foci, injured as she was now, as they continually pushed toward her, closing the remaining gap inch by inch. With her eyes still closed, she heard a shotgun blast burst through the makeshift doorway barricade. That wouldn’t hold much longer either. It would be so easy to just . . .

No. Not yet. That inhuman expression on Marcus’s face flashed in her mind, with cities in ruin. Damien’s concerned eyes, telling her of what would come. These unchecked assassinations, and Asim ready to go all-in against them if she could just give him an opening. If there was a time to be stubborn, it was now.

She opened her wet eyes, still on one knee, pulled Jessica’s pistol from the holster on her hip, and leveled it at Fallon across the five rooms.

The mental strain made wielding foci and pistols at the same time nearly impossible, especially aiming from forty yards away. But she had no choice.

Fallon’s eyes went wide. She yanked her own pistol from its holster like a Western-style fast draw, frantically firing first. The bullet buzzed inches past Sara’s temple, and Fallon’s foci weakened briefly from her fractured concentration.

Sara exhaled and took a second to aim amid the chaos, remembering Bronn’s training and her years of daily practice. Marksmanship was all she had back then. She squeezed the trigger an instant before Fallon could fire again—and scored a hit straight through Fallon’s neck.

Fallon gasped, collapsing backward against the wall, and her foci vanished inches from Sara’s chest, freeing her from their oppressive force.

Sara still had her room’s door barricaded with her right focus, but two guards came through the doorway of the adjacent room in front of her and looked left toward her through the giant hole in the wall. She crushed their heads with her left focus, now that it was free from Fallon’s grapple.

Finally, she looked down at her laser burn.

The blast had seared her left side, straight through armor and flesh, but a glancing enough hit through the skin and muscle on her side to miss her organs. Still, every twist of her torso sent a fresh burst of agony from the area. It hurt even more than when Asim had shot her through the shoulder, since it was impossible to isolate the abdomen’s movements.

Another shotgun blast came through the makeshift barricade, which she still held against the room’s doorway with her right focus. Her breath turned ragged, and she shivered from shock, but it was time to move. She used her left focus to painfully pick herself up and flew over to Fallon and Clare, through the five broken walls of the five broken rooms.







Chapter 45



Sara watched as Clare stirred, her eyes opening. Fallon’s were squeezed shut, but she was conscious, slumped over and clutching her neck, coughing and bleeding out. With that much blood, the shot must have struck an artery.

After checking her surroundings, Sara spent a few seconds with both her foci barricading the door and blocking part of the hole in the wall with furniture.

Fallon looked up, bared her teeth, and weakly lashed out with both foci again. Sara caught them with her left focus, releasing part of the barricade briefly, then pistol-whipped Fallon across the face with her right hand, stunning her and making her foci vanish for the second time. Fresh blood came from Fallon’s mouth on the impact.

“Clare, come on. We have to go,” Sara said, trying to get her up faster. Someone pounded on the door, and Sara used her right focus to hold the room’s desk tightly against it as a barricade.

“You’ll nev . . . get out,” Fallon said, then spit out blood. Her voice was little more than a gurgle. “Should’ve . . . listened to me.”

Sara knelt, grabbed Fallon by the hair, and looked into her eyes. “Where’s Stallard? Tell me, or I’ll rip pieces of you off one at a time like you threatened Clare.”

Fallon smiled, eyes barely open, with blood smeared across her lower face. “Such a . . . sharp blade.”

Sara used her left focus to bash Fallon’s thigh, snapping her femur with a sick crunch like she had with Carter earlier. Fallon arched her back and gasped with her bloody mouth, a silent scream. The barricaded door was still being pounded on, and now someone started to shoot through it. Sara stayed low to the floor. She couldn’t hold this room much longer against so many people. Eventually, it would be breached. Her head was splitting in pain; she had used too much energy in this fight. Fallon closed her eyes and leaned her head back against the wall.

“Fine. I’m done with this,” Sara said, reaching out to crush Fallon’s head with her left focus. She didn’t like killing downed combatants, but Fallon was too dangerous to leave alive, and she was bleeding out anyway. This wasn’t a time for mercy.

“Stop!” Clare shouted, awake now. Her two foci grabbed Sara’s left focus. “She’s done!”

Sara turned. “Don’t you know what she was going to do to you?”

“She was trying to keep others safe,” Clare said, sitting up and pressing her palm over Fallon’s bleeding neck. “She apologized when she brought me here, and wanted me to convince you to surrender during the call. She really thought you would. I know that she’s . . .” Clare trailed off and just looked back at Sara, her eyes pleading, seemingly not knowing what else to say.

Sara could have effortlessly pushed through Clare’s two foci to finish Fallon off, but she couldn’t bring herself to do it, not with Clare looking at her like that. She let the tension go in her left focus and locked eyes with her friend as more shots blasted through the nearby door.

“Do you know where Stallard is?” she asked.

Clare shook her head.

Sara grabbed Fallon’s radio. “Fallon has fallen,” she said into the radio’s main frequency, trying to sound as vicious as possible. “So have Santiago and Jolce. For anyone hearing this, leave the building if you value your life. I’m not your enemy.”

“Is that C17?” some guard asked, sounding alarmed. “Is Fallon really down?”

“It’s coming from Fallon’s radio,” another said, voice grim.

“Both class commanders?” That was Quinn’s voice. C8.

“Hold your stations,” Raphael said, loud and firm.

More chaotic chatter followed. Morale was breaking, both among subjects and guards. The pounding and shooting on the barricaded door ceased as they reassessed their next steps with a fractured leadership structure. Still, Sara knew dozens must be out there, with hundreds on the broader grounds and countless more security drones. Clare kept working to suppress Fallon’s bleeding, using her telekinesis on the blood itself in addition to her hands on the wound.

“Now what?” Quinn asked. She was the oldest remaining member of Class C who was still active somewhere. “Both of our class commanders are down.” Fallon’s radio had a secondary frequency for leaders like Jolce’s did, and Quinn seemed to be speaking on that.

“You’re the new Class C commander, then,” Raphael said on the leaders’ frequency. “And Bronn, you have Class B. Hades fallback plan initiated. Hold your stations in the meantime.”

“Acknowledged,” Bronn said. “Careful what you say here.”

What did that mean? Hades fallback plan? Underground?

If she understood correctly, the basement seemed a rather risky place to fall back to. It was more protected due to narrow chokepoints, but there were also fewer exit paths if those chokepoints were breached. And was it the basement or the sub-basement? Who would be there? Or maybe she was misunderstanding what he meant entirely.

“Clare,” Sara said, breathing heavily, “my mission’s messed up now. I can’t do both of my remaining objectives. I need you to do something.”

“What’s all this for?” Clare shouted, looking back toward Sara as she tended to Fallon, her hands covered in blood. “Why are you doing this?” There were tears in her eyes, and as she glanced down at Sara’s laser burn, they watered further.

“I want to free the rest of you, and I have to stop what Stallard is going to do with Marcus. Damien discovered something so dangerous before he died, Clare. I’m doing this with him. But with Fallon’s trap, this setback, I need your help.”

“You’ve killed so many,” Clare said. “And you’re hurt.”

Sara nodded, out of breath, pain coming from everywhere, and reached into her pocket. Hopefully it wasn’t broken from the fight. “Please, just listen. Your part is peaceful. Go to the server room upstairs on the third floor and connect this memory drive to server rack seven. Quickly. This will transmit data from this facility to our allies on the outside. It might help them shut this place down and set you all free. Damien wrote the code himself. He already has a transmitting program running here, and he gave me directions on where to insert this to bring down the facility’s firewall and let the data out. Server rack seven, specifically.” She held out the memory drive to Clare and looked into her eyes. “Please, Clare. It’s me. If I somehow get through this, I’ll tell you everything. I know it looks awful.”

“How can I get up to the server room through so many people?” Clare asked.

“They’re not after you. It was only Fallon and Stallard’s plan to use you against me, since it would hurt morale if too many knew. Jolce and Santiago were in on it too, I guess. I have to go downstairs. They’ll come after me. I know you can find a way upstairs. You’re on their team, after all.” Sara smiled, pretending to look confident even though she was anything but.

Sara looked around the rubble of Jolce’s room. Those basement chokepoints would be well protected, and by people who knew what they were doing, like Raphael and Bronn, who were still around somewhere. Seeing a piece of broken mirror on the floor, originally from Jolce’s bedroom wall, Sara brought it over to herself with her left focus and grabbed it with her hand. It could come in handy.

Clutching the memory drive in one hand and keeping her other on Fallon’s neck, Clare furrowed her brow in uncertainty. Fallon was limp, lying against the wall with her eyes closed, barely breathing. She would’ve almost looked peaceful if not for all the blood.

Sara brought the radio to her mouth. “Only Clare and Fallon are left in Jolce’s room. Don’t fire at it. Fallon needs emergency care.”

“Sara . . .” Clare said.

“I trust you.” Sara looked down and blasted a narrow hole in the floor. “Trust me?” She glanced back up and smiled, then dropped through the hole, using one of her foci to slow her descent.







Chapter 46



Sara landed in a men’s restroom on the first floor. A guard stepping out of a stall turned to face her, gasped, and reached for his pistol. Sara crushed his weapon and mentally shoved him hard against the wall.

As more jets thundered outside, their sound vibrating through the building’s walls, she tried to get her bearings straight. If she was going underground, the central stairwell was the best option, since it descended to both the basement and the sub-basement, unlike the other stairwells that stopped at the basement level. The industrial elevator went down there too, but using it now was too risky, and it was located in the same central shaft anyway.

From the hole in the ceiling above came shouting and the sounds of her makeshift barricades being torn apart, along with Clare’s sweet voice amid the chaos. Hopefully Clare would be safe—and would trust her enough to do her part. She couldn’t help but smirk to herself at the thought. This must have looked so insane to Clare. Sara wouldn’t blame her if she refused to act. She didn’t even trust herself. Not truly. Why should Clare? And yet Clare’s actions were just as important right now as Sara’s final objective.

Another jet roared. Was it her imagination, or were they getting more frequent? They’d probably been alerted to the infiltration by this point and were tightening airspace control.

“Target went through the floor, somewhere on level one now,” Quinn’s voice said over the main frequency. “Fallon’s dying. Med team to level two, Jolce’s room.” Sara still had Fallon’s radio with her, since it gave access to their communications, including the leaders’ frequency.

The guard in the restroom stirred. Sara slammed him once more with her right focus, then picked him up with it. She pushed him through the doorway, using his body as a levitating shield, and stepped through after him.

A laser blast came at her from a female guard, but Sara’s makeshift shield took the hit. She crushed the female guard’s laser rifle with her left focus, hurled the injured guard toward her, and sprinted down the hall in the other direction despite the searing in her side. Two more guards wielding standard assault rifles with pistols at their hips stood ahead of her, along with a levitating security drone. With one focus, she crushed both their heads and the security drone’s shell, and with a second focus she blocked the bullet that the drone had been able to fire before being crushed.

She slipped around a corner, down a smaller corridor, through a doorway, and into the central stairwell. Gasping in pain, she mentally crushed the ceiling camera and paused to gather more resolve, taking deep breaths. So much for being a ninja. It was the Pentagon all over again, just a monster on a rampage. But some of this blood was on Fallon’s hands; if not for her trap in Clare’s room, Jessica’s disguise would have lasted longer.

It didn’t matter; there was no time to dwell. Now that she was away from major sightlines, she could try stealth again. Sara mentally twisted off the nearest portion of the stairs’ metal railing to jam the steel door she had just come through, buying herself a little time against the next wave. After eyeing her work, she headed down the stairs, on alert for guards.

Like in other stairwells in the facility, each flight of stairs doubled back in the opposite direction of the prior one, with a series of small landings in between. As she reached the basement level, she crushed the camera there and crouched near the door to listen. It didn’t sound like anyone was in the corridor outside of it. She inched the door open and levitated her mirror shard out to see down the corridor to the left, using the open door as cover on her right side. From what the mirror showed, there were plenty of closed doors but no people around. She sent the shard farther out, past the slightly open door, and flipped it to look down the corridor to the right. Empty. Voices drifted from that direction, though. From the pool area.

She grabbed the mirror shard out of the air and snuck down the hall toward the pool, listening to doors along the way, until a familiar voice sounded from behind.

“Freeze, Sara,” Bronn whispered. “Keep looking forward. I’ve got a laser on your spine, so don’t try anything sudden.”

She froze in place, her shoulders tightening. How had he been so silent, even to her ears? She considered lethally blasting back behind herself without looking right away, but he was so fast that he’d probably get his shot off too. They’d both die. And this was Bronn of all people.

“Where’d you come from?” she asked.

“It’s my job, Sara. It’s all I do. What are your goals?” Even when he was speaking softly, his voice had a resonance behind it. Like the sound of distant, rumbling thunder.

“To find Stallard. No one else,” she said.

“He isn’t on this level. This is where the children and their caretakers were evacuated to. There can be no fighting here.”

“Did he go deeper, down to the sub-basement?” she asked.

He remained silent.

“Bronn. It’s me. If you tell me where he is, I can minimize casualties.”

“Stopping you here would end casualties now, Sara.”

She sighed. “Yes, but it would lead to more down the line from a much greater threat than me. Do you know what Stallard was doing with Damien? What he’s still doing with Marcus?”

He didn’t respond.

“Those children you’re protecting,” she said. “Do you want them to grow up like us? Forced to kill? Or would you rather they be free?” She wished she could see his face, and that in return he could see the tears welling up in her eyes. “It’s still me, Bronn, I swear. I have allies on the outside. This wasn’t meant to be so bloody.”

After a few tense seconds, he spoke. “Go downstairs. I’ll try to delay them, but no promises.”

Her tight shoulders eased. Despite his prior instructions, she turned around to face him. He tensed, trigger finger ready, but she smiled and showed her palms. “I missed you,” she said. His heavy armor covered his face and body, so she couldn’t see his expression. “I have to go back the way I came,” she added.

He treaded backward, still pointing his laser rifle at her as she walked forward, but after a few steps, he lowered it. Now that she saw him, whether he pointed it or not, she could use one focus to block his trigger and another to crush his head, and he surely knew that. He had let her turn around, after all.

“In case I don’t see you again, thank you,” she said.

He nodded, and she slipped through the door, back into the stairwell. Clare should have reached the server room by now. Or so she hoped.



“It’s starting,” Damien said. “She brought the firewall down. I’m receiving terabytes of data from their core database, and it seems my programs are working as expected.”

Asim released the bridge of his nose, which he’d been pinching so hard that it’d gone numb. Both he and Damien had been holding their metaphorical breaths for the past several minutes, fearing that Sara had been killed when her recording sunglasses stopped transmitting. The last thing they’d seen was Santiago’s laser shot, and the last thing they’d heard was Sara’s awful scream. Yet, minutes later, the database transmission started. How had she managed that?

“Holy shit,” Asim said. “That means I actually have to go through with my part of the plan. I almost hoped for my sake she’d fuck this up.” He looked over at Damien and smiled.

Damien nodded, but he remained expressionless, saying nothing.

“What’s wrong? This means your girlfriend’s still alive. She made it to the server room somehow.” His words were as much for his own sake as they were for Damien.

“You heard that scream,” he said. “That she got to the server room is promising, but we don’t know how, and she’s still in danger. That’s the part I hated from the start—her potential exit strategies are so limited. And by now, Colonel Torbeth is probably sending reinforcements as well. It’ll be inescapable.”

He was right of course. Sara’s part in this was practically a suicide mission, but she’d been adamant about doing it anyway. Asim found himself wanting to comfort Damien and had to remind himself that he was only a mimic.

“I’m sure she’ll find a way. I shot her before, but it still worked out somehow. And don’t forget to send me the message when the download is finished,” Asim said with a false smile.

“Mimics don’t forget,” Damien said. “That’s my problem.”







Chapter 47



“Update on target’s location?” Raphael asked on the main frequency.

“Multiple cameras just went offline in the central stairwell,” replied a woman who sounded like a coordinator.

Well, there goes that. Sara crept down the central stairwell one flight at a time toward the sub-basement as quietly as possible, not that it mattered much now. At each landing, before she turned the corner to go down the next flight in the opposite direction, she levitated out her mirror shard to check for threats first.

At the fifth landing, as she floated it out, she caught a glimpse of Raphael, Romulus, and several guards with laser rifles at the bottom of the final flight. Six people total, all with lasers, along with maybe eight security drones and a thick steel barricade to use for cover. Romulus shot the shard into pieces before she could pull it back. Damn his reaction time.

His laser blast also drilled several inches deep into the concrete wall of the stairwell landing. Just the sight of those sparks made Sara’s burnt side flare in pain again. She’d been doing her best to ignore it, but each step and every movement sent another scorching sensation through her body.

She exhaled. Deep down, she’d known it would come to this. Despite all the planning, this felt like the Pentagon. No room for error. No unnecessary risks. She could blast diagonally down through the second-to-last flight of stairs that she was using for cover with lethal force and end them. Too much was on the line, she was this close to finishing her mission, and her pain-induced rage brought her to the brink of doing exactly that. They’d all be ready to shoot lasers the second she rounded the corner to try to grip any of their weapons, so she had to blindside them.

But she was trying to be better, and Raphael had likely saved her life from Fallon two years earlier. Romulus was a narcissist but nothing worse, and with her luck, those other four guards probably all had big families or tragic backstories.

She clenched her fists. “Put down your guns and leave! Please don’t make me kill anymore. My fight isn’t with any of you.”

“You’re fucking insane!” Romulus shouted.

“Sara,” Raphael said in a more measured tone. “Just turn back and surrender to the team above.”

“You know I can’t do that. One more chance,” Sara said, almost pleading. “I won’t hurt anyone who walks up the stairs unarmed, right now. Ten seconds.”

There were whispers and footsteps, then a laser shot and a thud.

“No quarter for deserters. Hold the line,” Raphael said, voice low. Had he killed one of those who’d tried to leave like she offered?

“What happened?” she asked.

Silence.

“What happened!”

“Target in central stairwell, sub-basement level,” Raphael said over the main frequency. “Send major reinforcements down to flank now.”

“Acknowledged,” someone said in response. Probably a guard subcommander.

Sara gritted her teeth as fury washed over her. There was nothing more to say. She blasted diagonally through the edge of the second-to-last flight of stairs with lethal force, down toward where she knew the group was stationed. She’d been delusional to think that Stallard and Raphael’s core chokepoint would be soft, and they’d likewise been delusional to underestimate her capacity for violence. Sometimes it takes a monster.

She heard their screams, and the rumbling moan of the stairwell as it shifted under her feet, its structural integrity impaired. She couldn’t be sure she’d hit them all, but from the sheer force of the blast, she knew most or all must be dead. She burst around the corner onto the last flight of stairs to look, ready to crush anything that still seemed like a threat.

There was nothing but ruined bodies, shattered drones, and rubble. Only one of them coughed and squirmed.

Raphael was dead. Four other guards were dead. Romulus was down and gasping amid the rubble, partially protected by his ruined heavy armor.

Sara stepped down to the sub-basement where the bodies were, crushed the ceiling camera, then looked back up the stairs as a commotion echoed from a floor or two above. The reinforcements.

Using her foci, she ripped down the bottom flight of concrete and steel stairs that she’d just come down, as well as the flight above them, collapsing them with a grinding roar into a rubble-filled blockage. That would block whatever team was coming, but not for long.

Ignoring the sound of settling chunks of concrete, she toggled the radio mic and spoke over the main frequency. “Raphael’s dead. I have his chokepoint now. Whoever comes down dies next.” It didn’t take any effort to sound savage this time.

“Bronn?” Quinn said over the leaders’ frequency, panicked.

“Colonel Torbeth and his forces are en route,” Bronn said over the main frequency. “I’m taking over Raphael’s security command in the meantime. Hold off on breaching until we organize a concentrated force. Maintain positions, and stop using these frequencies. They’re compromised. I’ll reach out to some of you individually to establish a secure line.”

“But what about Dr. Stallard?” Quinn asked over the leaders’ frequency.

“What did I say about comms?” Bronn responded, raising his voice. “That’s an order. Stand by.”

By organizing everyone, Bronn was both slowing them down for Sara’s sake and saving their lives. It wouldn’t last, though. The Stolguard facility team, especially once backed by Colonel Torbeth and his forces from the nearby Air Force base, could perform an unstoppable push down here with explosives, Class B and C subjects, and sheer numbers of drones and soldiers. And her threat over the radio was partially a bluff; her fight against Fallon and her team had already drained most of her energy.

She looked down at Romulus. One of his legs had been shredded apart, and other major injuries covered his body through his broken armor. With this much damage, he’d probably bleed to death before he could be stabilized. She crouched down next to him, feeling nauseous at how much pain he must be in, and pulled off his helmet. “Do you want to try to live, or should I make it quick?” she whispered. “I’m sorry, Rom.”

“Pl . . . please . . . live,” he gasped. His face was smeared with blood.

Sara nodded and set the helmet down beside him. It seemed like the wrong choice to her, but at least she’d asked. She stood back up and looked around. Never in her life had she been down here, and her splitting headache and side pain made her disoriented.

There was the stairwell, the industrial elevator, a door that read—hell, it was hard to even focus on reading the words—Maintenance, another marked Restrooms, and a large set of double doors labeled Cold Storage. Rubble from the stairwell lay strewn across the cracked concrete floor.

Sara reached out with a focus to grab a piece of metal railing from the stairwell rubble, twisted it into a U with her other focus, and rammed it into the elevator doors to lock them together. None of this would hold against a real push, but it would prevent stragglers from easily coming down in the meantime.

She listened to the two single doors, then peeked into them one at a time to make sure nobody was there. She set her sights on the double doors next. They were button-operated and would make some noise, but there was no other way.

She pressed and entered, ready to shield herself.

This was a mortuary of some sort, chilly, smelling of formaldehyde and antiseptics. Emmett stood with his hands already up. A younger female lab assistant next to him did the same. They must have heard the fight with Raphael’s team and knew she was coming. Next to them lay Zarina’s body, naked and half-covered by a sheet, cut open on a wheeled metal table. Emmett seemed to be overseeing the assistant performing Zarina’s autopsy. A woman Sara herself had killed just days ago.

“Emmett,” Sara said, nodding. She was trying, despite everything, to sound peaceful. A monster pretending to be human. Dusty, bloody, burnt, and practically staggering at this point, she wondered what she must look like to them. She glanced up at the ceiling camera and crushed it.

Emmett winced at the sound and nodded back. “Sara.” His voice was tense. Nervous. He glanced down at the burnt side of her vest and tightened his jaw.

She scanned the room. “Open your lab coats. Do either of you have weapons?”

“Of course not,” Emmett said. With slow and deliberate movements, he held his lab coat wide open, and so did his assistant. No signs of concealed guns on their hips or inner pockets.

“Did Stallard come through here?” Sara asked, still breathing hard.

Emmett hesitated, then gave a conflicted shake of his head. Sara held his gaze for several seconds, but he said nothing more.

“He did,” the assistant said, breaking the tension.

Emmett looked down and exhaled.

Sara looked at the assistant. A storage closet stood behind her. “Open that,” Sara said, pointing.

The assistant glanced at Emmett, who nodded, and she turned and pulled open the door. It was nothing, filled only with equipment.

“Anything else I should know?” Sara asked. She eyed Emmett, trying and failing to sound casual. “Just tell me. Please.”

Emmett studied her for a long moment. “Sara . . . I can’t,” he said eventually.

“You’re a doctor,” Sara said. “Romulus is dying outside that door. Bleeding out fast. Tell me who else came through here. Then I’ll let you out there to help him. I’m not your enemy.”

Emmett sighed, looked back up at the broken camera, then met her gaze again. “It was Thane and Marcus,” he said. “But it’s cold in there, very cold, so you’ll be weakened.”

He put his arms down and reached for medical supplies before she even said he could. He’d always been able to read her well; he had known her all her life. His lab assistant hesitated, taking in Emmett’s actions, and then looked back at Sara. Sara nodded, and the assistant put her arms down and set to work with him.

Fallon and some other subjects viewed Stallard as their father for all practical purposes. Sara had never felt any such bond. But she was young enough that people like Emmett and Bronn were almost like uncles—older role models she’d known since her earliest memories, and who’d always shown kindness.

After half a minute of preparation, Emmett and his assistant walked past her toward where Romulus lay dying. A dark thought crossed her mind as they did.

Emmett ranked so highly here, basically Stallard’s number two, and she imagined him of all people being the one whom showing mercy to would come back to haunt her. What if he did have a gun, or some concentrated poison? It wasn’t like she’d checked that thoroughly. And what if Bronn, despite what he said on the radio, was secretly sending everyone down here right now, rather than waiting for Colonel Torbeth? What if Fallon woke up and stopped Clare from getting to the server room? What if Carter got back up and was the one to shoot her on the way out?

One of these people she’d let live somewhere in the building would probably surprise her with her death, directly or indirectly. If that was the case, well, she couldn’t help it.

She could, however, hedge her bets.

“Emmett,” she said, and he paused in the doorway. “When this is over, can you reach out to a colonel named Asim Rahal and tell him some of what happened here today? Off the record, at least. He’s at Army Counterintelligence. And . . . thank you. For all those times you treated me well.”

Emmett furrowed his brow, then nodded and let the door close behind him. A heavy weight settled in her chest at the thought that this might be the last time she’d see him, though she’d always known her affection for him was mostly one-sided. He was the closest thing she had to a parent, but he had a whole life and family outside this place, and she was one of many subjects he showed kindness to. It wasn’t like they’d ever talked much.

She sighed and looked around the room. Aside from the storage closet that they’d already proven to be empty, there was a set of double doors labeled Cold Storage 1. An empty coat rack stood beside them. Why had Stallard and Marcus come this way? It would clearly lead to a dead end.

When she pressed the button, the double doors opened into a small insulation room. Then, as she pressed the button on the wall inside that area, the doors closed behind her, and the next set of double doors opened into a cold, large warehouse, with seven aisles of storage extending into the room.

At the far side through the middle aisle, another set of double doors was closing, which meant someone had just gone through. She looked to her right and left, then trudged down the middle aisle toward the doors, crushing the cameras on the ceiling along the way.

These doors had Cold Storage 2 written on them. She glanced through the window. Stallard or whoever had gone through had already gotten past the next insulation room that she could see. She pressed the button to open the doors, then pressed the button in the insulation room to open the next set. Once again, the doors behind her closed. But as the new ones opened, she was blasted by cold so intense that it almost burned. She stepped back, shocked.

Involuntary shivers ran through her body as the insulation room grew colder and colder, far deeper than any winter she’d ever known.

Would she even be able to use her telekinesis here?

She unholstered her pistol and held it to her side. That’s why Stallard came down here, she realized.

“Stallard!” she shouted. “Let Marcus go. It’s over.”

“Sara?” Marcus’s voice came from deep inside the room, from somewhere behind the shelves of storage. “Are you here to kill me too? I don’t want to die.”

“I’d never hurt you, Marcus. I want to help you.”

She listened, growing colder, trying to hear a response through the constant refrigerator hum. Like the previous warehouse, this one was vast and had seven aisles of storage. From the entrance, she was looking straight down the middle aisle. Dressed as she was, she couldn’t linger too much longer. Her arms were bare, and the temperature felt like death. Hushed speaking came from deep inside and slightly to the right, as far as she could tell.

“What lies have you told him, Stallard?”

“Only the truth, C17,” Stallard said back. “That you killed your fellow subjects, including Damien. He has seen some of the clips, and they speak for themselves.”

Wrath surged through her. “Marcus, I didn’t kill Damien! I came to free you from those painful tests Stallard makes you do. Can you come out to me, or is he stopping you?”

Silence.

“Stallard, final warning. The tests you do with Class D are more dangerous than you realize. Don’t make me do this. Surrender yourself and let him go for his own good. For everyone’s good.”

More silence.

Well, there went the last of her possible exit strategies—using Stallard as a live hostage to get out of here. There was no way she’d be able to fight through whatever forces were up in the facility now, preparing to breach down here. Especially in her injured, drained state. There were so many lasers and so little cover around the grounds of the facility, and they’d use the chokepoint of the central stairwell and elevator shaft to prevent her from even getting back up to the surface.

Her shivers grew more violent. It was now or never. She’d come this far and wasn’t about to turn coward now.

Holding her pistol out with both hands, she stepped into the vast room and turned right. As she walked, she glanced to her left down each of the three aisles on that side, surveilling the area before heading deeper in. She reached the last aisle without having seen Stallard or the boy; they were probably hiding behind one of the shelf-ends on the deep side of the room.

As a test, she tried to mentally crush one of the ceiling cameras, but she couldn’t manage it. She could mentally tear its power cord, though, and did the same for the three others she saw.

The ridiculous temperature of this place made her as weak as she used to be; it was nearly impossible to pull energy out of the air. She wouldn’t be able to stop bullets or crush weapons here, and Stallard was certainly armed. With this extreme cold, and tired and hurt as she was, she could feel her life draining away by the second. Her fingers had already gone numb on the pistol.

She walked back toward the middle aisle near the entrance where she’d started, again looking down each aisle on this side of the room as she went.

She wanted to keep sight of the double doors in case Stallard tried to sneak himself and Marcus around to them while she headed deeper in. So, she crept down the middle aisle toward the deep side of the room, pistol up, frequently looking back over her shoulder at the doors.

There were gaps on some of the shelves on either side of her that someone could hide in or slip through from an adjacent aisle, so she peeked into them as she passed by to make sure Stallard wasn’t waiting for her with a surprise shot. She’d never set foot in here before, while he probably knew every square inch of it by heart.

When she neared the end of the aisle, she stayed close to the shelf to the right, angling to see more and more of the area on the left shelf-end, around the corner. Nobody was there. She burst around the shelf corner to the right, ready to fire.

Marcus stood alone in a heavy coat, hiding behind the right shelf-end, and flinched back at the sight of her. He was so small for a thirteen-year-old, and the adult-sized parka he wore draped down nearly to the floor.

“Where is he?” she asked, voice hollow.

Marcus’s eyes widened, and he looked up at something behind her right shoulder. She glanced back, breath catching in her throat, but it was already too late.

“Goodbye, C17,” Stallard said from behind as he raised an assault rifle straight at her head. He must have slipped through one of the shelf gaps and snuck up behind her from the same aisle she’d come down, like she’d worried might happen. He pulled the trigger.

For a long time, she’d looked forward to death—the end of a frustrating existence. Damien’s escape plan had given her a brief week of optimism, but then his death had finished her off inside. Deep down, when she’d decided to return to this place, she knew she’d die here.

But now, face-to-face with it, she wanted to live.

Somewhere along the way, whether it was Jitters’s and Aisha’s care, playing with Scorpio, arguing with Asim, sipping tea with Ava, falling asleep with Damien’s mimic, or seeing Jessica’s love for her son, something had woken back up inside of her.

It was hope, maybe. She’d finally seen the outside world.

Yet, she knew what she had to do. It didn’t feel sad; it felt right. All was well, even though she wouldn’t be.

A dozen of the rifle’s bullets came out with a deafening bang, but they stopped midair between Stallard and herself.

Stallard’s eyes went wide. He staggered back, nearly stumbled over, and dropped the rifle. For the first time in her life, Sara saw real fear in him. Filled with adrenaline, these seconds stretched out for her, and probably for him, too. She couldn’t help but enjoy his expression.

Since the air was too cold, she had extracted her own body heat for energy. Right from the blood in her veins. A final energy source, but one that would kill her to use. With it, she’d shielded herself from his shots using her left focus.

With her right focus, she grabbed the bullets and held them aloft as she stared at Stallard’s face. Using the last of her blood’s heat, she mentally thrust them back at him, faster than they’d come out of his gun. Back through his head and chest, a dozen holes. He was dead before his ruined body hit the floor, his heavy coat sprawling around him.

Sara dropped to her hands and knees, then fell onto her side, clutching her arms to her chest, frigid down to her core. Her heart was failing. Her legs lost feeling, and then her whole body went numb. As her still-open eyes lost vision, a tiredness that felt different from sleep washed over her.

“I love you, Marcus. I’m sorry I scared you,” she whispered, hearing the boy come over.

She smiled and closed her eyes. It was better to die wanting more than to die feeling bitter about what had been. As her consciousness faded away, she felt at peace.







Chapter 48



Asim received the message he’d been waiting for Damien to send. Time to hold up his end of this shit show.

It would take a while to comb through the data, but from Damien’s analysis, it looked like they had the relevant part of the Stolguard facility’s database, including detailed records of tests, missions, and scientific details. Even Stallard’s personal logs. They separately had footage from Sara’s perspective for the early part of her attack, including recordings of Fallon’s threats about Clare.

If Asim released this to the public or admitted that he had foreknowledge of Sara’s attack on the facility, he’d be charged with treason. So, he’d lie and see if he could get away with it. A man needed to take risks when he thought it was the right thing to do.

No news outlets had reported anything about the attack on the Stolguard facility, and no official word had come down through the military. Suppressed, of course. It’d been over two hours since Sara began her infiltration, which should’ve lasted half an hour if successful, depending on how long it took her to find Clare first. Sara was either dead or captured; if she’d gotten out somehow, he would’ve likely heard from her by now. Damien himself still hadn’t heard anything either, which said everything there was to know.

Asim felt bad for the woman, but she had chosen this for herself. At Damien’s insistence, she’d promised during their planning session that she would try to get out if she could, but they all knew it wasn’t likely. Asim would make sure to find out the details of her fate, one way or another. First, though, it was time to make sure it wasn’t all for nothing.

He picked up the phone and made a call.

“Major General Scholl’s office,” her secretary answered. “Colonel Rahal?”

“The one and only,” he said. “I need to speak to the general in person immediately. Absolute highest priority. National scale. I don’t mean to go around Davis, but I’m already here at INSCOM for some meetings and he’s over at the Pentagon. I need to report this to a superior sooner than I can get over there.”

“One moment,” she said. Seconds later, she came back. “The general can see you in five.”

Asim was already on his way to the elevator. He cracked his neck in both directions as he waited for the doors to open. Riding up, he rehearsed his lies. He strode past the secretary as she nodded to him, then knocked on the general’s door.

“Come in,” Scholl said from behind the heavy wood and decorative trim.

Asim entered and saluted. “Ma’am.”

“At ease. This better be good, Colonel. I delayed an important call for this.”

“Well, it’s not good, but it’s critical, ma’am.”

“Tell me.”

“I believe there’s been another attack by Jade, this time right at the heart of the Stolguard facility.”

Scholl nodded. “I was notified by General Rodriguez an hour ago, but his team is still crafting the narrative. This time they got her. Jade’s dead. She did damage, and Thane Stallard himself was killed, but it’s over.”

Asim wasn’t surprised, but it still felt like a gut punch to hear it out loud. “Unfortunately ma’am, I have additional news on it that they might not have. Most of their data was leaked.”

“What?” Scholl’s voice sharpened. He’d never seen her eyes go wide like that before.

“I received this message from what I believe is a mimic of a deceased subject from that facility. Look, ma’am.” He held out his phone and played the message. It was a video of Damien’s mimic, in VR, which Asim had secretly preplanned with him.

“Colonel Rahal. My name was Damien,” the video began. “I was a test subject at the Stolguard facility. Sara, or Jade as you might know her, recorded part of her infiltration today. She also sent me petabytes of core data from the servers. Lists of missions. Full subject genomes. And more. I haven’t released it publicly yet, but I will if my reasonable demands aren’t met. I’ll be in contact soon with more details. Here’s a sample, with provable metadata.”

The video cut to footage from Sara’s augmented reality sunglasses, including the part where Fallon held Clare hostage, followed by a fight breaking out between Sara, Fallon, and Jolce, with Jolce gruesomely splattering apart from what looked like an invisible shockwave. The video ended as Santiago broke through a door and shot toward the camera while his armored head imploded in a spray of blood. Sara’s scream was the last thing on the audio as the sunglasses hit the floor and went offline.

It sure looked like Sara died there, but she must’ve gotten at least a little farther before they took her out, since the facility’s firewall had gone down several minutes later and the servers had begun transmitting then. Tough as nails, she was.

“This . . . this is catastrophic,” Scholl said, staring at the phone. “We have to alert the Army Chief immediately. Why did the mimic send this to you?”

“I made contact with Jade twice in recent weeks during my investigation. She was using one of her captives’ identity keys and VR avatar. I couldn’t prove it, and for security purposes I kept that detail close to the chest. So, I guess this mimic decided to reach out to me. His virtual features match one of the subjects’ bodies we found at the initial rest stop attack, ma’am.”

“You had contact with her and didn’t disclose it? You might get skewered for that, Colonel. There’ll be investigations.”

“I expected that, ma’am. But I wanted to make sure you had this mimic’s threat immediately.”



Two days later, Asim found himself repeating the story in the Pentagon to an assembly of top military officers, including General Rodriguez, who had flown in. Asim was under preliminary investigation by the Army’s Criminal Investigation Division, CID, for potential negligence or conspiracy, and they made a note of the whistleblower reports he’d filed as well. SOCOM was also applying a ton of pressure. He certainly looked complicit.

“Did you have any knowledge of the attack ahead of time?” asked Rodriguez’s investigator. A man named Major Duwain. He spearheaded the process for his general. Some other corners of the military seemed more sympathetic to Asim’s side of the matter. Before deciding who to blame, most of the top brass just wanted to understand what the hell had even happened.

“No, I did not,” Asim lied. “If anything, we suspected she might strike MacDill. We’ve had to split our resources across multiple regions.”

“Why did you withhold the fact that you had established virtual contact with the suspect in your intel-sharing agreement with the Stolguard facility?”

“Because the nature of the conversations with the suspect led me to potentially distrust the facility’s director, Thane Stallard, from a counterintelligence perspective. I wanted to keep the line of communication with the suspect open. However, I used intel learned from those conversations to issue warnings. I sent alerts for major facilities to acquire laser rifles after first speaking with her. And I had my team collect public social media posts that matched the types of language that the suspect used in our conversations, and made them known to the Stolguard facility, so they’d have the intel without me revealing my source, sir. She was concerned about a specific threat involving the facility’s Class D subjects, and I made that known to them. I also included the suspect’s warnings about Class D in my report to the Joint Chiefs after she murdered General Price, from the brief conversation I overheard between them.”

“Did anyone else on your team know you made contact with the suspect?”

“Not that I know of. I met her alone in VR. My team only knows that I have some clandestine sources.” Another lie. Ava, Flanagan, and Brooks would be kept clean from this mess if possible. The rest of his team had been truly in the dark about that part. “And I would remind the assembly here that I was the one that arrested her in the first place. Not other agencies. It was partly because of the second meeting with the suspect that I directed more resources back to Brooklyn, where we found her.”

“Do you still stand by your whistleblower case?”

“I do. And the initial footage the mimic sent me further confirms it. The video’s metadata shows that it came from a pair of augmented reality sunglasses that belonged to a woman named Martha Twill. She and her husband reported false imprisonment and theft a few days ago from their yacht, by someone matching the suspect’s description. That metadata would be extremely hard to fake, especially on such short notice. It shows major ethical breaches at the facility, including one subject holding another subject hostage and threatening her with a violent death, even though they were on the same team, sir.”

“That’s rather minimal relative to everything else, isn’t it, Colonel?”

“Designating human beings born on US soil as noncitizens, then treating them inhumanely,” Asim said. “Threats of torture, death. I wouldn’t call that minimal, sir, but there’s more. This morning, the mimic sent me highlights of some of the broader data, which I’ve shared with my superiors. It confirms with extensive evidence that in addition to their foreign operations, several Class C subjects were sent on domestic assassinations, including against certain government whistleblowers, protest organizers, corporate targets, two members of Congress, multiple district judges, and even a Supreme Court justice. I believe the rabbit hole here needs to be ripped open and examined, sir. Multiple generals could be complicit. Maybe higher.”

“That is . . . alarming, Colonel. But if this investigation finds credible evidence that you collaborated with the suspect or had foreknowledge of the Stolguard facility attack—which resulted in seventeen fatalities, including the suspect—you’ll be court-martialed and face potential life imprisonment for treason. If you wish to make a confession before evidence is found to substantiate charges along those lines, that would be factored into sentencing. Is there anything you wish to say, Colonel?”

You only killed sixteen? Not bad, Sara. That was downright restraint compared to the number he’d feared to hear. “I stand by the truth of my statements, sir. I love my country. I did what I thought was right, purely to keep a communication line open and make sure I took all potential threats seriously. Not just the obvious threat from her, but also the threats she warned about. I had no foreknowledge of her attack on the facility.”

“From your knowledge of the case, what do you recommend we do regarding the mimic’s terrorist threat to release sensitive data?”

“That seems to be a mimic of a deceased Class D subject. An extension of a victim, in other words. I wouldn’t quite classify it as a terrorist threat. More like an aggressive whistleblower. Even though I cannot condone the mimic’s threat to release the data publicly, I see why it’s taking that approach. Given the highlights I’ve already received and shared with you, I recommend negotiating with it. I do believe there are severe ethical breaches at the facility and at SOCOM that potentially extend to the highest levels of government. That’s why I filed my whistleblower report in the first place, before this attack even happened.”

Major Duwain leaned to his side and whispered to General Rodriguez, probably deciding what course of questioning to take next. They likely hadn’t expected Asim to call out their command so directly.

He looked around the room of high-ranking officers and their various support staff. It was time to make this abundantly clear in case not all of them were getting it yet. Bad cop, good cop.

“One more thing, if I may,” Asim said.

Duwain turned back toward him. “Yes, Colonel?”

“I intend to keep pursuing my whistleblower case through formal, legal channels. About everything. The inhumane treatment of subjects, the treasonous domestic assassinations, and the potential Class D cybersecurity threat that nearly went haywire. If I’m imprisoned, my colleagues will be prepared to carry the whistleblower case forward while I contest the charges. Given the mimic’s data leak threat, and based on the wording of its demands so far, I believe it will be satisfied as long as we thoroughly pursue the evidence wherever it leads and prosecute accordingly. Which, I trust, is what all those present want to do anyway.”

Asim took a deep breath and met the eyes of various top brass, one by one. After all, a man should stand by his principles, even when it drew uncomfortable attention. Someone had to spearhead this mess. Might as well be him.



When Ava strolled into the Stolguard facility’s main building, her first thought was that it wasn’t as creepy as she expected. And that was a bummer.

The forested grounds were nothing special, and the main structure, while enormous, was little more than a research building the size of a shopping mall. She already knew that of course, from aerial photos, but even the inside was . . . kind of boring. Just white and sterile.

She was one of three people who’d arrived as agency representatives: herself for ACI, Colonel Bright for General Rodriguez’s command, and Ms. Mageth for the CIA. Colonel Rahal couldn’t come himself; he was stuck at the Pentagon, performing his part of the plan. But he’d made her promise not to say anything weird about aliens here, and she was trying her best.

“The facility was damaged from the attack two days ago, but we already ran safety checks and will of course avoid the areas that are considered unstable,” said their escort. She was a middle-aged woman named Dr. Michelle Verdant, the facility’s head of subject well-being.

“I was told Ackerman would see us directly,” Colonel Bright said. He was referring to Dr. Emmett Ackerman, the facility’s acting director for the past two days, following Dr. Stallard’s death. Rodriguez’s office and the CIA had both demanded to come and see the aftermath of the incident, and for some reason Dr. Ackerman had personally reached out to Colonel Rahal for an invitation to come as well.

The woman paused, then smiled. “Of course. I’m here to take you to him. Right this way.” She brought them through a series of corridors toward a large industrial elevator and ushered everyone in, then followed. “Dr. Ackerman is ready to meet you in our mortuary, to verify some of your questions in person.”

The doors closed, and after a longer-than-expected ride down, they opened onto a heavily damaged sub-basement area. Even the elevator doors had two holes in them. The concrete floor was practically shattered, and six construction workers were shoveling rubble aside. It was only when Ava stepped out and looked to the side that she could see the full scope of the damage—the stairwell here had completely collapsed, and that had been the source of most of the rubble. A woman in her twenties with those cat-like green eyes and brown hair tied back into a loose bun leaned against the wall, watching them as they exited the elevator.

“This is the VIP tour,” Dr. Verdant said to the green-eyed woman.

The woman nodded and knocked on the set of double doors labeled Cold Storage. “The tour’s here, Emmett!” she shouted, then turned back to the group and smiled.

A moment later, the doors opened. A man with graying brown hair and blue eyes stood in the doorway wearing a lab coat, with a female assistant about Ava’s age beside him. Both of them had bags under their eyes.

“Welcome,” he said with a tired smile, glancing around the group. “I’m Dr. Emmett Ackerman. You can just call me Emmett. Colonel Bright, is it?” He held out a hand, and the colonel shook it.

“Ms. Mageth, welcome.” He shook her hand.

“And you’re Special Agent Zhou, of Army Counterintelligence? I’m sorry Colonel Rahal couldn’t make it, but I’m glad he was able to send someone on his behalf. He spoke very highly of you.” He reached out, and Ava shook his hand.

She glanced past him. Now this room was starting to look sufficiently creepy for her taste. The sort of place where aliens might be kept. And this was the type of man who would know about them. It was always the soft-spoken ones who knew the creepiest stuff. She could almost feel the secrets within him, right under the surface. He was hiding something.

“This is one of my lab assistants, Rachel, and I see you’ve met my acting bodyguard, Clare,” Emmett said, gesturing them inside. He put on a more somber expression as they walked in. “This is our subject mortuary. I understand you wanted to see the deceased before they undergo dissection or are put into deep storage. Of course, the non-subject deceased personnel have been taken care of at external mortuaries, and so this is only for the three subjects who died in the attack, since they are classified as our facility’s property, as ill-advised as that term might be.” He shrugged apologetically. “I must warn you; their deaths were quite graphic.”

“Yes, yes,” Colonel Bright said.

When no objections came, Emmett walked up and put his hand on one of the handles on the mortuary wall. “This is Santiago, or B8 officially, who died from head trauma,” he said, and pulled out a sliding table from the wall. He drew away part of the sheet. Ava covered her mouth at the sight, while Colonel Bright remained stoic. It was the massive olive-skinned man whom she’d seen at Fort Hamilton, his head now reduced to a pile of meat and bone. Emmett slid the table back in.

“Oh my,” Ms. Mageth said.

Emmett nodded. “This next one is Jolce, or C6, who died from blunt-force trauma to, well, everywhere. Friendly fire, unfortunately.” He pulled out a table holding an absolute mess: a bloody partial rib cage, several red-spotted bone pieces of various sizes, two fully intact feet and shins of a light-skinned woman with a toe tag on one of them, and several large jars of red gore.

“What the hell?” Bright asked.

“One of our own subject commanders was a bit overeager to take out the attacker and missed, it seems,” Emmett said, shaking his head. “Tragic.”

He slid that table back in, then tightened his jaw. “And last, the attacker who caused all this,” he said. “She was officially known as C17, but she called herself Sara. You likely know her as Jade. She died of hypothermia, as well as shock from an abdominal laser blast. The late Dr. Stallard bravely led her into a trap in our deep cold storage warehouse, which impaired her abilities. I’ll be dissecting her brain this week to better understand how she could do the things she did.”

As Emmett pulled out the table and moved aside the sheet, Ava’s heart sank. There in front of her rested Sara’s body. The reddish-brown hair dye and side-swept bangs made her look different, but from her face, scars, and emaciated figure, it was indeed Sara. She had several new injuries as well, including a gory burn on her left side and a host of smaller cuts and bruises. Her right shoulder wound still looked somewhat fresh from her torture, and she was missing some fingernails on her right hand.

She looked so young now, lying there without her armor, eyes closed, peaceful. Ava thought about how her own mother would frame it, even if she didn’t really believe it herself. She’d say that Sara would wake up from this life, as if from a bad dream, and realize all was as it should be.

Ava looked up at Clare. Her eyes seemed tense. From things Sara had said, the two of them had been best friends. She had to be heartbroken over this. Although she tried to hold it back, Ava’s own eyes welled at the thought. Clare inclined her head slightly, a sense of curiosity in her expression.

“Good riddance,” Colonel Bright said. “What a mess.”

Emmett nodded and sighed as he draped the sheet over the body, then slid the table back into the wall. Clare shifted her gaze to Bright with a more piercing stare, those dangerous eyes out of place in such a kind face.

“Now,” Emmett said, “Ms. Verdant can show you upstairs, where most of the damage occurred, and can take you to the infirmary if you wish to see or speak with our injured subjects. I assure you they’re being well taken care of. I’ll finish here and meet you up in my office shortly thereafter, where I’ll be happy to answer any of your remaining questions.”

Oh, Ava would put that offer to the test. And regardless of what Colonel Rahal had said, there would indeed be a question about aliens. Sorry, sir.



Minutes later, after the tour left, Sara’s table was pulled out from the wall again.

“You played that nicely,” Emmett said. “This one made me nervous as hell, so hopefully that’s the last time. Let’s get that side bandaged up again.”

Sara opened her eyes. “I’m . . . freezing,” she whispered. Talking was still hard.

Emmett’s assistant, Rachel, came over and wrapped her back up in an electric heated blanket, careful to avoid touching her side, while Clare stepped up, grinning with relief, and gripped her hand.

Sara met her eyes and smiled as best as she could. She was still too weak to move much at all. Between the heavy painkillers and the heartbeat-slowing serum Emmett had injected her with, it didn’t take much effort to play dead other than holding her breath. Her body felt pleasantly numb, with a buzzing, almost floating sensation. Strangers seeing her half-naked didn’t even matter at this point; details like that felt so trivial after everything else.

When she had collapsed in the cold two days earlier, her blood itself frigid to the core, Marcus had been unable to carry her. Instead, he ran for help and found Emmett, who was still in the sub-basement near the broken stairwell, stabilizing Romulus.

According to Emmett, he followed Marcus and found her pulseless body, carried her out to this mortuary, wrapped her in an electric blanket, and administered CPR. Her pulse came back, weakly, though she remained unconscious. Using Fallon’s radio, which Sara still had with her, Emmett reported that both she and Stallard had died in battle, and requested assistance to clear the stairwell rubble so they could evacuate Romulus to the medical bay.

Under command of the Air Force’s Colonel Torbeth, the forces breached down to the sub-basement ten minutes later. Emmett had made use of that window. He displayed Sara’s “corpse” in the mortuary next to Zarina’s and Stallard’s, as if she were one of the dead. And in the two days since, after she had woken and with Clare keeping watch for him, Emmett made Sara play dead for other staff who came through, whether to bring Santiago’s body and Jolce’s guts, or just to check on things.

It turned out, Sara realized, that one of her acts of mercy had come back to save her.







Epilogue





Six Months Later


Asim relaxed on his favorite virtual beach, sipping a can of flavored sparkling water. The salty breeze from the crystalline sea and the sound of gulls amid its waves blended nicely to ease his mind.

He came here less often now, not even once a month. But for some reason, he needed it this evening. It’d been a particularly stressful week, capping a particularly stressful series of months.

Because of his whistleblowing and secret coordination with Damien’s mimic to threaten a public release of the Stolguard facility’s data, there had been countless hearings requiring Asim’s participation, and the facility had undergone major reforms.

All subjects could refuse to participate in tests if they wished, and at age eighteen they could choose to leave the facility entirely. Several, including Clare, had already stopped their missions. Others, such as Fallon, had chosen to stay in the US special forces. The newest classes would have all those choices from the start as they grew up, and the creation of any new classes beyond those was paused for now.

Stallard’s permanent replacement, Dr. Emmett Ackerman, supported the reforms, which made the process far smoother than it otherwise would have been. One less headache, at least. He hadn’t fought every step of the way like his predecessor had, and higher-ups like General Rodriguez could no longer shield the program from scrutiny.

Especially not Rodriguez himself: he had been arrested on charges of conspiracy, tied to several of the domestic assassination missions, along with two officers on his staff and three senior CIA members. Asim’s team at ACI—along with the FBI, CID, and others—were still working through the web of connections there, and probably would be for years.

The science behind Class D had been distributed to several other scientific bodies within the country under top-secret agreements, for further safety reviews. Damien’s mimic even worked with some of them, elaborating on the dangers of his experience. That compromise was considered the best of both worlds by the specialists; it hadn’t released the method of creation to the public yet, but it allowed more sets of eyes to examine it and run various game theory analyses on it. That would ideally allow a more gradual leakage of the threat, and there’d be more defenses ready if it ever came to fruition again.

Authorities never found evidence of Asim and Ava’s collaboration with Sara or with Damien’s mimic. They had covered their tracks well. His prospects for promotion had likely taken a hit, but that was fine with him. He was at peace with what he’d done, and with what he was still doing.

“You haven’t been here in a while,” said a voice from behind. Sara.

He turned to look. She stood there, in her true form with blond hair, using a new identity key. She was no longer gaunt, and her facial scars were noticeably thinner. Almost gone. She had other faint scars on her body, including on her right shoulder and left side, but her fingernails had regrown.

“What’s this?” he asked. “A mimic? At least you don’t look like shit anymore.” He did his best to hide his unease.

“Try again,” she said, then came and sat beside him in a black bikini and a loose, colorful beach cloak that flapped in the wind.

Asim opened his information screen. A visual verifier flag claimed that her device was showing the user’s real scanned body, with no alterations. A mimic couldn’t generally fake that. It was the mode people used when trying to prove that they were who they claimed to be. Only a minority of people used it, either because most people liked their little artificial touch-ups or because they wanted to be anonymous. Technically, it was possible to fake the verifier flag by hacking into a VR device’s hardware, but by design that was very difficult to do.

“Wait, so . . .” he started to say, but the sentence felt too stupid to finish.

“Yeah.” She smiled, and this time it reached her eyes.

“How?”

She shrugged. “Who can say? Anyway, I’d much rather be speaking with Ava right now. But she hasn’t used her identity key in months, so I wasn’t sure how to reach her. Can you tell her I said goodbye, and thanks for all the tea?”

Asim asked her a few verifier questions, which she passed, then sipped his water as he tried to wrap his head around this. “Sure. That was a throwaway identity key she used with you, for privacy. If you plan to stick with the one you’re using now, I’ll let Ava know so she can message you on it.”

“Thank you,” she said. “I’m at least glad you didn’t end up in prison. Damien was worried that you might. I wondered if I’d have to come back and bust you out or something.”

“Fortunately not. I just got chewed out a lot. And I’ve had a ton of extra paperwork to deal with, thanks to you two.” He cracked a smile.

“Anything interesting?” she asked.

“The domestic assassinations really struck a nerve. Several whistleblowers and corporate tycoons were taken out by senior Class C members during the past decade, and there’s documentation. Even a few politicians and judges. The sheer scale of it has caused quite a stir. Some other agencies keep trying to bury it, but Damien threatening to release the data whenever things slow down gives me more leverage to push forward internally. The Class D computer hookups and Singularity shit are all beyond my understanding, but the other stuff there was, well, powerful. Thank you.”

“Damien says that the facility’s being reformed,” she said. “Is that what you see from your side?”

“It’s true. Doing my best on that. Others as well. Bronn and Clare gave great closed-door Congressional testimonies about various ethical breaches. Jessica, too. Meanwhile, Fallon testified in defense of the facility. What a piece of work she is. Protective of your memory, though. Whenever one of her questioners referred to you as C17, she’d insist they call you Sara instead.” He sipped his water, watching her hold back a smile.

“And Class D?” she asked.

“I think the best-case scenario is that the tech will get more gradually distributed as it’s studied and rediscovered, rather than hitting the unprepared world all at once, like it would have under Stallard if you and Damien hadn’t caused all this mess. Certain cryptographic vulnerabilities are being patched and responsibly shared. Damien’s comparison to European diseases and guns hitting the New World feels apt.” He shrugged. “But then again, I don’t really know shit.”

Sara nodded, then turned toward the sea. “Why haven’t you been coming here?”

He thought for a moment. “I guess I don’t need to,” he said eventually, and took another sip of water. “My work is fulfilling for a change, and I got my daughter to talk to me again, at least to some extent. I’m trying to break out of repetition, you know? To live a little.”

“What is life, to you?” she asked, turning back to look at him.

“Hell if I know. Not being dead, I guess. Nor wanting to be.”

“That’s my favorite answer yet, I think. It’s simple.” Her eyes lit up as she seemed to contemplate it. “Anyway, I’ve got to go. Can’t risk being seen in this mode. I’ll keep this identity key, though. Ciao!”

“Bye,” he said, and she vanished.

Well, then.



Sara took off her headset and stood, gazing out over the sea, catching the last rays of sunset over the water. A real sea, with no distractions. Down south, out of the country, in a simpler place with fewer cameras.

Only Clare knew where she was, and she had promised to visit once it became possible. After this meeting, Asim and Ava would also have a way to contact her if needed.

Damien’s mimic was still out there somewhere, but he had convinced her that it was best that he distance himself to make it easier for her to move on. At least they’d been able to say their goodbyes.

As she thought about how much she missed the real Damien, a breeze ruffled her hair and she took a deep breath. She wished she could tell him that he succeeded in the end. That the things he set in motion mattered.

She would have to look over her shoulder for the rest of her life, and she was more alone than she preferred, but overall, things had turned out better than she could’ve hoped. Certainly better than she deserved. She still sat up at night with dark thoughts sometimes, either about the lives she’d taken or about what she might have done differently, but not as often as before.

It was time to rebuild. Time to figure out what life meant, at least to her. She couldn’t take back what she had done, for better or worse, but she could move forward.

As Clare liked to say, one step at a time.







Acknowledgements



Shifting from writing nonfiction to fiction has certainly been a journey.

First and foremost, I want to thank my husband, Mohamed Badran, for his critical alpha reading and developmental editing. Without his insight and support, this book wouldn’t be what it is today.

Victoria Lavish provided invaluable early writing feedback, for which I can’t thank her enough. Many beta readers also offered genre-savvy input, including Bradley, Carla, Walker, Zac, Shana, Nico, Magdalena, Natalie, Sam, Ben, Ana, Louise, Yoanna, J. Flowers, Bree, Simona, Danny, Hannah, Tyler, Joshua, Jonathan, Nicole, Alexia, Richard, Samiat, Nathaniel, Brady, Steven, and Will. I’m also grateful to my friends with military backgrounds who answered my questions about special operations and administrative procedures.

My editors Dylan Garity, Bryan Thomas Schmidt, Diana Gill, and April Kelly helped refine the work dramatically from there.

Lastly, I want to thank the Human Rights Foundation for their tireless work at the intersection of technology and freedom. While this is a work of fiction, many of the technologies depicted can, in the real world, be used either to liberate or to oppress, and the HRF performs vital work promoting the former and resisting the latter. All profits from the first thousand copies will be donated to support their mission.







About the Author





Lyn Alden is an investor and author who focuses on the intersection of finance and technology.

She holds a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and a master’s in engineering management, and spent over a decade designing and building aircraft simulators at the FAA’s Cockpit Simulation Facility.

Today, Lyn runs an investment research business at LynAlden.com and serves as a general partner at the venture firm Ego Death Capital. Her 2023 bestselling nonfiction book, Broken Money, explores how ever-changing technology shapes the nature of money and power over time.







